The Project Gutenberg eBook of The story of the universe, Volume 4 (of 4)
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The story of the universe, Volume 4 (of 4)
        The Earth's creaturs: Fauna

Author: Esther Singleton

Release date: February 11, 2026 [eBook #77914]

Language: English

Original publication: New York: P.F. Collier and Son, 1905

Credits: John Campbell and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This book was produced from images made available by the HathiTrust Digital Library.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE STORY OF THE UNIVERSE, VOLUME 4 (OF 4) ***




  TRANSCRIBER’S NOTE

  Italic text is denoted by _underscores_.

  Footnote anchors are denoted by [number], and the footnotes have
  been placed at the end of the book.

  Chapter headings have been made consistent, with the title on a
  single line and the author on the following line.

  The Index in this book covers all four volumes.

  Some minor changes to the text are noted at the end of the book.

  Volume I of this set of four volumes can be found in Project
  Gutenberg at: https://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/74571

  Volume II can be found in Project Gutenberg at:
  https://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/77792

  Volume III can be found in Project Gutenberg at:
  https://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/77827




[Illustration: Butterflies and Other Insects

1, Callimorpha; 2, Prionus Cervicornus; 3, 6, Licæna; 4. Oryctes
Hercules; 5, Lucanus Cervus; 7, Zeryntina; 8, Lithosia; 9, Arctia;
10, Cynthia; 11, Papilio Œnora; 12, Oryctes Nasicornis; 13,
Melolontha; 14, Papilio Machaon; 15, Goliathus; 16, Ditiscus; 17,
Leptura; 18, Geotrupes; 19, 20, Vanessa; 21, Urania]




                             THE STORY OF
                             THE UNIVERSE

                       _Told by Great Scientists
                         and Popular Authors_

                         COLLECTED AND EDITED

                         _By_ ESTHER SINGLETON

     Author of “Turrets, Towers and Temples,” “Wonders of Nature,”
      “The World’s Great Events,” “Famous Paintings,” Translator
            of Lavignac’s “Music Dramas of Richard Wagner”

                          _FULLY ILLUSTRATED_


                               VOLUME IV

                                  THE
                                EARTH’S
                               CREATURES:
                                 FAUNA


                        THE CURRENT LITERATURE
                            PUBLISHING CO.,
                               NEW YORK




                            COPYRIGHT 1905
                          P. F. COLLIER & SON




ILLUSTRATIONS


  Butterflies and other Insects                         _Frontispiece_

  Radiolaria                                        _Opposite p._ 1327

  Curious Zoophytes                                       ”       1375

  Fishes                                                  ”       1423

  Shells                                                  ”       1495

  Types of Extinct Fishes, Shells, and Crustacea          ”       1543

  Birds                                                   ”       1591

  Fairy Flies                                             ”       1639

  American Reptiles                                       ”       1687




CONTENTS


  OMNIPRESENCE OF LIFE. George Henry Lewes                        1285

  THE ANIMAL KINGDOM. Thomas H. Huxley                            1296

  THE FOUR CLASSES. Baron Cuvier                                  1301

  DEEP SEA FAUNA. Lord Kelvin                                     1304

  “THE MIMIC FIRES OF OCEAN.” G. Clarke Nuttall                   1320

  THE JELLY-FISH AND OTHER HYDROZOA. P. Martin Duncan             1324

  FISHES. Andrew Wilson                                           1337

  WONDERS OF THE SHORE. Charles Kingsley                          1357

  CRABS, PRAWNS, AND LOBSTERS. Philip Henry Gosse                 1374

  REPTILES. Peter Mark Roget                                      1379

  THE CLASSIFICATION AND ORIGIN OF INSECTS. Lord Avebury          1401

  INSECTS: THEIR WINGS, STINGS, EARS, AND EYES.
      Philip Henry Gosse                                          1425

  FAIRY FLIES. Fred. Enock                                        1449

  INSECT TRANSFORMATIONS. Andrew Wilson                           1458

  STRUGGLE FOR EXISTENCE. Charles Darwin                          1464

  NATURAL SELECTION. Charles Darwin.                              1482

  MAMMALIA. Baron Cuvier                                          1513

  ZOOLOGICAL ZONES. Sir Richard Owen                              1520

  GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF ANIMALS. William Hughes            1535

  CETACEA. Peter Mark Roget                                       1561

  HUNTING AND FISHING OF ANIMALS. Frédéric Houssay                1565

  THE DEATH-FEIGNING INSTINCT. W. H. Hudson                       1577

  BIRDS. J. Arthur Thomson                                        1582

  MIMICRY. David Robertson                                        1593

  DWELLINGS. Frederic Houssay                                     1601

  MAN’S FIRST APPEARANCE. Boyd Dawkins                            1647

  MAN’S PRIMITIVE CONDITION. Duke of Argyl                        1656

  RACES OF MANKIND. Wiliam Hughes                                 1667

  THE HUMAN RACE. Louis Figuier                                   1679

  INDEX                                                           1695




THE STORY OF THE UNIVERSE
(VOLUME FOUR)




THE STORY OF THE UNIVERSE




  OMNIPRESENCE OF LIFE
  --GEORGE HENRY LEWES


Come with me, and lovingly study Nature, as she breathes, palpitates,
and works under myriad forms of Life-forms unseen, unsuspected, or
unheeded by the mass of ordinary men. Our course may be through park
and meadow, garden and lane, over the swelling hills and spacious
heaths, beside the running and sequestered streams along the tawny
coast, out on the dark and dangerous reefs, or under dripping caves
and slippery edges. It matters little where we go: everywhere--in
the air above, the earth beneath, and waters under the earth--we
are surrounded with Life. Avert your eyes a while from our human
world, with its ceaseless anxieties, its noble sorrow, poignant, yet
sublime, of conscious imperfection aspiring to higher states, and
contemplate the calmer activities of that other world with which we
are so mysteriously related. I hear you exclaim,

                 “The proper study of mankind is man;”

nor will I pretend, as some enthusiastic students seem to think, that

               “The proper study of mankind is _cells_;”

but agreeing with you, that man is the noblest study, I would
suggest that under the noblest there are other problems which we must
not neglect. Man himself is imperfectly known, because the laws of
universal Life are imperfectly known. His life forms but one grand
illustration of Biology--the science of Life--as he forms but the
apex of the animal world.

Our studies here will be of Life, and chiefly of those minuter or
obscurer forms which seldom attract attention. In the air we breathe,
in the water we drink, in the earth we tread on, Life is everywhere.
Nature _lives_: every pore is bursting with Life; every death is only
a new birth, every grave a cradle. And of this we know so little,
think so little! Around us, above us, beneath us, that great mystic
drama of creation is being enacted, and we will not even consent
to be spectators! Unless animals are obviously useful or obviously
hurtful to us, we disregard them. Yet they are not alien, but akin.
The Life that stirs within us stirs within them. We are all “parts of
one transcendent whole.” The scales fall from our eyes when we think
of this; it is as if a new sense had been vouchsafed to us, and we
learn to look at Nature with a more intimate and personal love.

Life everywhere! The air is crowded with birds--beautiful, tender,
intelligent birds--to whom life is a song and a thrilling anxiety,
the anxiety of love. The air is swarming with insects--those little
animated miracles. The waters are peopled with innumerable forms,
from the animalcule, so small that one hundred and fifty millions
of them would not weigh a grain, to the whale, so large that it
seems an island as it sleeps upon the waves. The bed of the seas
is alive with polypes, crabs, star-fishes, and with sand-numerous
shell-animalcules. The rugged face of rocks is scarred by the silent
boring of soft creatures, and blackened with countless mussels,
barnacles, and limpets.

Life everywhere! on the earth, in the earth, crawling, creeping,
burrowing, boring, leaping, running. If the sequestered coolness of
the wood tempt us to saunter into its checkered shade, we are saluted
by the murmurous din of insects, the twitter of birds, the scrambling
of squirrels, the startled rush of unseen beasts, all telling how
populous is this seeming solitude. If we pause before a tree, or
shrub, or plant, our cursory and half-abstracted glance detects a
colony of various inhabitants. We pluck a flower, and in its bosom
we see many a charming insect busy at its appointed labor. We pick
up a fallen leaf, and if nothing is visible on it, there is probably
the trace of an insect larva hidden in its tissue, and awaiting there
development. The drop of dew upon this leaf will probably contain its
animals, visible under the microscope. This same microscope reveals
that the _blood-rain_ suddenly appearing on bread, and awakening
superstitious terrors, is nothing but a collection of minute animals
(Monas prodigiosa); and that the vast tracts of snow which are
reddened in a single night owe their color to the marvelous rapidity
in reproduction of a minute plant (Protococcus nivalis). The very
mould which covers our cheese, our bread, our jam, or our ink, and
disfigures our damp walls, is nothing but a collection of plants. The
many-colored fire which sparkles on the surface of a summer sea at
night, as the vessel plows her way, or which drips from the oars in
lines of jeweled light, is produced by millions of minute animals.

Nor does the vast procession end here. Our very mother-earth is
formed of the débris of life. Plants and animals which have been
built up its solid fabric. We dig downward thousands of feet below
the surface, and discover with surprise the skeletons of strange,
uncouth animals, which roamed the fens and struggled through the
woods before man was. Our surprise is heightened when we learn
that the very quarry itself is mainly composed of the skeletons of
microscopic animals; the flints which grate beneath our carriage
wheels are but the remains of countless skeletons. The Apennines and
Cordilleras, the chalk cliffs so dear to homeward-nearing eyes--these
are the pyramids of bygone generations of atomies. Ages ago these
tiny architects secreted the tiny shells which were their palaces;
from the ruins of these palaces we build our Parthenons, our St.
Peters, and our Louvres. So revolves the luminous orb of Life!
Generations follow generations; and the Present becomes the matrix
of the Future, as the Past was of the Present--the Life of one epoch
forming the prelude to a higher Life.

When we have thus ranged air, earth, and water, finding everywhere a
prodigality of living forms, visible and invisible, it might seem
as if the survey were complete. And yet it is not so. Life cradles
within Life. The bodies of animals are little worlds, having their
own animals and plants. A celebrated Frenchman has published a thick
octavo volume devoted to the classification and description of _The
Plants which Grow on Men and Animals_;[1] and many Germans have
described the immense variety of animals which grow on and in men and
animals; so that science can boast of a parasitic Flora and Fauna. In
the fluids and tissues, in the eye, in the liver, in the stomach, in
the brain, in the muscles, parasites are found, and these parasites
have often _their_ living parasites in them!

We have thus taken a bird’s-eye view of the field in which we may
labor. It is truly inexhaustible. We may begin where we please, we
shall never come to an end; our curiosity will never slacken.

                  “And whosoe’er in youth
      Has through ambition of his soul given way
      To such desires, and grasp’d at such delights,
      Shall feel congenial stirrings late and long.”

As a beginning, get a microscope. If you can not borrow, boldly buy
one. Few purchases will yield you so much pleasure; and, while you
are about it, do, if possible, get a good one. Spend as little money
as you can on accessory apparatus and expensive fittings, but get a
good stand and good glasses. Having got your instrument, bear in mind
these two important trifles--work by daylight, seldom or never by
lamplight; and keep the unoccupied eye _open_. With these precautions
you may work daily for hours without serious fatigue to the eye.

Now where shall we begin? Anywhere will do. This dead frog, for
example, that has already been made the subject of experiments, and
is now awaiting the removal of its spinal cord, will serve us as
a text from which profitable lessons may be drawn. We snip out a
portion of its digestive tube, which, from its emptiness, seems to
promise little; but a drop of the liquid we find in it is placed on
a glass slide, covered with a small piece of very thin glass, and
brought under the microscope. Now look. There are several things
which might occupy your attention, but disregard them now to watch
that animalcule which you observe swimming about. What is it? It is
one of the largest of the Infusoria, and is named Opalina. When I
call this an Infusorium I am using the language of text-books; but
there seems to be a growing belief among zoologists that the Opalina
is not an Infusorium, but the infantile condition of some worm
(Distoma?). However, it will not grow into a mature worm as long as
it inhabits the frog; it waits till some pike or bird has devoured
the frog, and then, in the stomach of its new captor, it will develop
into its mature form--then, and not till then. This surprises you.
And well it may; but thereby hangs a tale, which to unfold--for the
present, however, it must be postponed, because the Opalina itself
needs all our notice.

Observe how transparent it is, and with what easy, undulating
grace it swims about; yet this swimmer has no arms, no legs, no
tail, no backbone to serve as a fulcrum to moving muscles--nay, it
has no muscles to move with. ’Tis a creature of the most absolute
abnegations--sans eyes, sans teeth, sans everything; no, not sans
everything, for, as we look attentively, we see certain currents
produced in the liquid, and, on applying a higher magnifying power,
we detect how these currents are produced. All over the surface of
the Opalina there are delicate hairs in incessant vibration; these
are the _cilia_.[2] They lash the water, and the animal is propelled
by their strokes, as a galley by its hundred oars. This is your first
sight of that ciliary action of which you have so often read, and
which you will henceforth find performing some important service
in almost every animal you examine. Sometimes the cilia act as
instruments of locomotion; sometimes as instruments of respiration,
by continually renewing the current of water; sometimes as the means
of drawing in food, for which purpose they surround the mouth, and by
their incessant action produce a small whirlpool into which the food
is sucked. An example of this is seen in the Vorticella.

Having studied the action of these cilia in microscopic animals, you
will be prepared to understand their office in your own organism.

It is an interesting fact, that while the direction in which the
cilia propel fluids and particles is generally toward the interior
of the organism, it is sometimes _reversed_, and, instead of beating
the particles inward, the cilia energetically beat them back if they
attempt to enter. Fatal results would ensue if this were not so.
Our air-passages would no longer protect the lungs from particles
of sand, coal-dust, and filings flying about the atmosphere; on the
contrary, the lashing hairs which cover the surface of these passages
would catch up every particle and drive it onward into the lungs.
Fortunately for us, the direction of the cilia is reversed, and they
act as vigilant janitors, driving back all vagrant particles with a
stern “No admittance, _even_ on business!” In vain does the whirlwind
dash a column of dust in our faces--in vain does the air, darkened
with coal-dust, impetuously rush up the nostrils; the air is allowed
to pass on, but the dust is inexorably driven back.

The swimming apparatus of the Opalina has led us far away from the
little animal who has been feeding while we have been lecturing.
At the mention of feeding you naturally look for the food that is
eaten, the mouth and stomach that eat. But I hinted just now that
this ethereal creature dispenses with a stomach, as too gross for its
nature, and, of course, by a similar refinement, dispenses with a
mouth. Indeed, it has no organs whatever except the cilia just spoken
of.

And this leads us to consider what biologists mean by an _organ_: it
is a particular portion of the body set apart for the performance
of some particular function. The whole process of development is
this setting apart for special purposes. The starting-point of Life
is a single cell--that is to say, a microscopic sac, filled with
liquid and granules, and having within it a nucleus, or smaller sac.
Paley has somewhere remarked that in the early stages there is no
difference discernible between a frog and a philosopher. It is very
true--truer than he conceived. In the earliest stage of all, both
the Batrachian and the Philosopher are nothing but single cells,
although the one cell will develop into an Aristotle or a Newton, and
the other will get no higher than the cold, damp, croaking animal
which boys will pelt, anatomists dissect, and Frenchmen eat. From
the starting-point of a single cell this is the course taken: the
cell divides itself into two, the two become four, the four eight,
and so on, till a mass of cells is formed not unlike the shape of
a mulberry. This mulberry-mass then becomes a sac, with double
envelopes or walls; the inner wall, turned toward the yelk, or food,
becomes the _assimilating_ surface for the whole; the outer wall,
turned toward the surrounding medium, becomes the surface which
is to bring frog and philosopher into contact and relation with
the external world--the Non-Ego, as the philosopher in after life
will call it. Here we perceive the first grand “setting apart,” or
_differentiation_, has taken place; the embryo having an assimilating
surface, which has little to do with the external world, and a
sensitive, contractile surface, which has little to do with the
preparation and transport of food. The embryo is no longer a mass
of similar cells; it is already become dissimilar, _different_, as
respects its inner and outer envelope. But these envelopes are at
present uniform; one part of each is exactly like the rest. Let us,
therefore, follow the history of Development, and we shall find that
the inner wall gradually becomes unlike itself in various parts,
and that certain organs, constituting a very complex apparatus of
Digestion, Secretion, and Excretion, are all one by one wrought out
of it by a series of metamorphoses or _differentiations_. The inner
wall thus passes from a simple assimilating surface to a complex
apparatus serving the functions of vegetative life.

Now glance at the outer wall: from it also various organs have
gradually been wrought; it has developed into muscles, nerves, bones,
organs of sense, and brain--all these from a simple homogeneous
membrane!

With this bird’s-eye view of the course of development you will be
able to appreciate the grand law first clearly enunciated by Goethe
and Von Baer as the law of animal life, namely, that development
is always from the general to the special, from the simple to the
complex, from the homogeneous to the heterogeneous, and this by a
gradual series of _differentiations_.

Here is our Opalina, for example, without mouth, or stomach, or
any other organ. It is an assimilating surface in every part; in
every part a breathing, sensitive surface. Living on liquid food,
it does not need a mouth to seize or a stomach to digest such food.
The liquid, or gas, passes through the Opalina’s delicate skin by a
process which is called _endosmosis_; it there serves as food; and
the refuse passes out again by a similar process, called _exosmosis_.
This is the way in which many animals and all plants are nourished.
The cell at the end of a rootlet, which the plant sends burrowing
through the earth, has no mouth to seize, no open pores to admit the
liquid that it needs; nevertheless, the liquid passes into the cell
through its delicate cell-wall, and passes from this cell to _other_
cells upward from the rootlet to the bud. It is in this way, also,
that the Opalina feeds: it is all-mouth, no-mouth; all-stomach,
no-stomach. Every part of its body performs the functions which in
more complex animals are performed by organs specially set apart.
It feeds without mouth, breathes without lungs, and moves without
muscles. The Opalina, as I have said, is a parasite. It may be found
in various animals, and almost always in the frog.

Nature is economic as well as prodigal of space. She fills the
illimitable heavens with planetary and starry grandeurs, and the
tiny atoms moving over the crust of earth she makes the homes of
the infinitely little. Far as the mightiest telescope can reach, it
detects worlds in clusters, like pebbles on the shore of infinitude;
deep as the microscope can penetrate, it detects life within life,
generation within generation, as if the very universe itself were not
vast enough for the energies of life!




  THE ANIMAL KINGDOM
  --THOMAS H. HUXLEY


As soon as the labors of anatomists had extended over a sufficiently
great variety of animals, it was found that they could be grouped
into separate assemblages, the members of each of which, while
varying more or less in minor respects, had certain structural
features in common, and these common morphological characters became
the definition of the group thus formed. The smallest group thus
constituted is a _Morphological Species_. A certain number of species
having characters in common, by which they resemble one another
and differ from all other species, constitutes a _Genus_; a group
of genera, similarly associated, constitutes a _Family_; a group
of families, an _Order_; a group of orders, a _Class_; a group of
classes, a _Sub-kingdom_; while the latter, agreeing with one another
only in the characters in which all animals agree, and in which they
differ from all plants, make up the _Animal Kingdom_.

Linnæus, living at a time when neither comparative anatomy nor
embryology can be said to have existed, based his classification
of animals upon such broad resemblances of adult structure and
habit as his remarkable sagacity and wide knowledge enabled him to
detect. Cuvier and his school devoted themselves to the working out
of adult structure, and the _Leçons d’Anatomie Comparée_ and the
_Règne Animal_ are wonderful embodiments of the results of such
investigations. But the Cuvierian system ignores development; and
it was reserved for Von Baer to show the importance of developmental
studies, and to inaugurate the marvelous series of researches which,
in the course of the last fifty years, have made us acquainted with
the manner of development of every important group of animals. The
splendid researches of Cuvier gave birth to scientific palæontology,
and demonstrated that, in some cases, at any rate, extinct forms of
life present characters intermediate between those of groups which
are at present widely different. The investigations of Agassiz upon
fossil fishes tended in the same direction, and further showed that,
in some cases, the older forms preserve, as permanent features,
structural characters which are embryonic and transitory in their
living congeners. Moreover, Darwin, Owen, and Wallace proved that,
in any great area of geographical distribution, the later tertiary
extinct forms are clearly related to those which now exist in
the area. As Taxonomic investigations increased in accuracy and
in extent, the careful examination of large suites of specimens
revealed an unexpected amount of variability in species; and
Darwin’s investigation of the phenomena presented by animals under
domestication proved that forms, morphologically as distinct as
admitted natural genera, could be produced by selective breeding from
a common stock.

The only genus of animals of which we possess a satisfactory, though
still not quite complete, ancestral history, is the genus Equus,
the development of which in the course of the Tertiary epoch from
an Anchitherioid ancestor, through the form of Hipparion, appears
to admit of no doubt. And all the facts of geology and palæontology
not only tend to show that the knowledge of ancestral development
is likely long to remain fragmentary, but lead us to doubt whether
even such fragments as may be vouchsafed to us by the extension of
geological inquiry will ever be sufficiently old, in relation to the
whole duration of life on the earth, to give us positive evidence of
the nature of the earliest forms of animals.

In the case of an existing animal, it is possible to determine its
adult structure and its development, and therefore to assign its
place relatively to other animals, the structure and development of
which are also known; and, in the case of an extinct animal, it is
possible to ascertain certain facts of its structure, and sometimes
certain facts of its development, which will justify a more or less
positive assignment of its place relatively to existing animals.
So far, Taxonomy is objective, capable of proof and disproof, and
it should leave speculation aside, until speculation has converted
itself into demonstration.

In the present rapidly shifting condition of our knowledge of the
facts of animal structure and development, however, it is no easy
matter to group these facts into general propositions which shall
express neither more nor less than is contained in the facts; and
no one can be more conscious of the manifold imperfections of the
following attempt at such a classification than the author of it.

In certain of the lower animals, the substance of the body is not
differentiated into histogenetic elements; that is, into cells[3]
which, by their metamorphoses, give rise to tissues. In all other
animals, on the other hand, the protoplasmic mass, which constitutes
the primitive body, is converted into a multitude of cells, which
become metamorphosed into the tissues of the body.

For the first of these divisions the old name of Protozoa may be
retained; for the second, the title of Metazoa, recently proposed by
Haeckel, may be conveniently employed.

The subjoined synopsis indicates the general relations of the
different groups of the animal kingdom.

Those who are familiar with the existing condition of our knowledge
of animal morphology will be aware that any such scheme must needs,
at present, be tentative and subject to extensive revision, in
correspondence with the advance of knowledge. Nor will they regard
it as any objection to the scheme of classification proposed, that
the divisions sketched out may be incapable of sharp definition--the
constant tendency of modern investigations being to break through
all boundaries of groups, and to fill up the gaps between them by
the discovery of transitional forms. In the place of assemblages of
distinctly definable groups, which it has hitherto been the object
of the taxonomist to define and co-ordinate in precise logical
categories, we are gradually learning to substitute series, in which
all the modifications by which a fundamental form passes from lower
to higher degrees of organic complication are summed up.


  ANIMALIA


              I.--PROTOZOA

    i. MONERA
          Protamœbidæ. Protomonadidæ. Myxastridæ, etc.

    ii. ENDOPLASTICA
          Amœbidæ. Flagellata. Gregarinidæ. Acinetida. Ciliata. Radiolaria


              II.--METAZOA

  A. Gastrææ

    i. POLYSTOMATA
          Porifera (or Spongida)

    ii. MONOSTOMATA

          1. ARCHÆOSTOMATA

               α. _Scolecimorpha_                    β. _Cœlenterata_
                        |
      /-----------------|----------------\
      Rotifera     Nematoidea   Hirudinea                Hydrozoa
      Turbellaria               Oligochæta              Actinozoa
      Trematoda

          2. DEUTEROSTOMATA

                       _a._ Schizocœla
                              |
    /-------------------------|-------------------------\
    _Annelida (Polychæta)_  _Gephyrea_  _Brachiopoda (?)_
    _Arthropoda_            _Mollusca_  _Polyzoa (?)_


                                   _b._ Enterocœla
                                         |
                /------------------------|------------------------\
                  _Enteropneusta_  _Chætognatha_  _Echinodermata_


                                                  _c._ Epicœla
                                                         |
                                            /------------|----------\
                                            _Tunicata_  _Vertebrata_

  B. Agastrææ (provisional)
        Acanthocephala. Cestoidea




  THE FOUR CLASSES
  --BARON CUVIER


If we consider only the organization and nature of animals, without
regard to their size, utility, the greater or less knowledge we
have of them, and other accessory circumstances, we shall find
there are four principal forms, four general plans, if it may be so
expressed, on which all animals seem to have been modeled, and whose
ulterior divisions, whatever be the titles with which naturalists
have decorated them, are merely slight modifications, founded on the
development or addition of certain parts, which produce no essential
change in the plan itself.

In the first of these forms, which is that of man and of the animals
most nearly resembling him, the brain and principal trunk of the
nervous system are inclosed in a bony envelope, formed by the cranium
and vertebræ; to the sides of this intermedial column are attached
the ribs and bones of the limbs, which form the framework of the
body; the muscles generally cover the bones, whose motions they
occasion, while the viscera are contained within the head and trunk.
Animals of this form we shall denominate Animalia Vertebrata. They
have, all, red blood, a muscular heart, a mouth furnished with two
jaws situated either above or before each other, distinct organs
of sight, hearing, smell, and taste placed in the cavities of the
face, never more than four limbs, the sexes always separated, and a
very similar distribution of the medullary masses and the principal
branches of the nervous system.

By a closer examination of each of the parts of this great series of
animals, we always discover some analogy, even in species the most
remote from each other; and may trace the gradations of one same plan
from man to the last of the fishes.

In the second form there is no skeleton; the muscles are merely
attached to the skin, which constitutes a soft contractile envelope,
in which, in many species, are formed stony plates, called shells,
whose position and production are analogous to those of the mucous
body. The nervous system is contained within this general envelope
along with the viscera, and is composed of several scattered masses
connected by nervous filaments; the chief of these masses is placed
on the æsophagus and is called the brain. Of the four senses, the
organs of two only are observable, those of taste and sight, the
latter of which are even frequently wanting. One single family alone
presents organs of hearing. There is always, however, a complete
system of circulation, and particular organs for respiration.
Those of digestion and secretion are nearly as complex as in the
vertebrata. We will distinguish the animals of this second form by
the appellation of Animalia Mollusca.

Although, as respects the external configuration of the parts, the
general plan of their organization is not as uniform as that of the
vertebrata, there is always an equal degree of resemblance between
them in the structure and the functions.

The third form is that remarked in worms, insects, etc. Their nervous
system consists of two long cords, running longitudinally through
the abdomen, with which they communicate by filaments that encircle
the æsophagus like a necklace. The covering or envelope of the body
is divided by transverse folds into a certain number of rings whose
teguments are sometimes soft, and sometimes hard; the muscles,
however, being always situated internally. Articulated limbs are
frequently attached to the trunk; but very often there are none. We
will call these animals Animalia Articulata, or articulated animals,
in which is observed the transition from the circulation in closed
vessels to nutrition by imbibition, and the corresponding one of
respiration in circumscribed organs, to that effected by tracheæ
or air-vessels distributed throughout the body. In them the organs
of taste and sight are the most distinct; one single family alone
presenting that of hearing. Their jaws, when they have any, are
always lateral.

The fourth form, which embraces all those animals known by the name
of zoophytes, may also be properly denominated Animalia Radiata, or
radiated animals. We have seen that the organs of sense and motion in
all the preceding ones are symmetrically arranged on the two sides of
an axis. There is a posterior and anterior dissimilar face. In this
last division they are disposed by rays round a centre; and this is
the case even when they consist of but two series, for then the two
faces are similar. They approximate to the homogeneity of plants,
having no very distinct nervous system or particular organs of
sense; in some of them it is even difficult to discover a vestige of
circulation; their respiratory organs are almost universally seated
on the surface of the body, the intestine in the greater number is a
mere sac without issue, and the lowest of the series are nothing but
a sort of homogeneous pulp, endowed with motion and sensibility.




  DEEP SEA FAUNA
  --LORD KELVIN


Nearly all the animals at extreme depths--practically all the
animals, for the small number of higher forms feed upon these--belong
to one sub-kingdom, the Protozoa; whose distinctive character is that
they have no special organs of nutrition, but absorb nourishment
through the whole surface of their jelly-like bodies. Most of these
animals secrete exquisitely formed skeletons, some of silica, some
of carbonate of lime. There is no doubt that they extract both these
substances from the sea-water; and it seems more than probable that
the organic matter which forms their soft parts is derived from the
same source. It is thus quite intelligible that a world of animals
may live in these dark abysses, but it is a necessary condition that
they must chiefly belong to a class capable of being supported by
absorption through the surface of their bodies of matter in solution,
developing but little heat, and incurring a very small amount of
waste by any manifestation of vital activity. According to this view
it seems probable that at all periods of the earth’s history, some
form of the Protozoa--rhizopods, sponges, or both--predominated
greatly over all other forms of animal life in the depths of the
warmer regions of the sea. The rhizopods, like the corals of a
shallower zone, form huge accumulations of carbonate of lime, and it
is probably to their agency that we must refer most of those great
bands of limestone which have resisted time and change, and come
in here and there with their rich imbedded lettering to mark like
milestones the progress of the passing ages.

We find the first and simplest of the invertebrate sub-kingdoms,
the Protozoa, represented by three of its classes--the monera,
the rhizopoda, and the sponges. The monera have been defined as a
distinct class by Professor Ernst Haeckel, of a vast assemblage of
almost formless beings apparently absolutely devoid of internal
structure, and consisting simply of living and moving expansions of
jelly-like protoplasm. The monera pass into the rhizopoda, which give
a slight indication of advance in the definite form of the graceful,
calcareous, shell-like structures which most of them secrete, and the
two groups may be taken together.

The dredging at 2,435 fathoms at the mouth of the Bay of Biscay gave
a very fair idea of the condition of the bottom of the sea over an
enormous area, as we know from many observations which have now been
made with the various sounding instruments contrived to bring up a
sample of the bottom. Under the microscope the surface-layer was
found to consist chiefly of entire shells of Globigerina bulloides,
large and small, and fragments of such shells mixed with a quantity
of amorphous calcareous matter in fine particles, a little fine sand,
and many spicules, portions of spicules, and shells of Radiolaria, a
few spicules of sponges, and a few frustules of diatoms.

In this dredging, as in most others in the bed of the Atlantic,
there was evidence of a considerable quantity of soft gelatinous
organic matter, enough to give a slight viscosity to the mud of
the surface-layer. This gelatinous matter is capable of a certain
amount of movement, and there can be no doubt that it manifests the
phenomena of a very simple form of life.

To this organism, if a being can be so called which shows no trace
of differentiation of organs, consisting apparently of an amorphous
sheet of a protein compound, irritable to a low degree and capable of
assimilating food, Professor Huxley has given the name of Bathybius
haeckelii. The circumstance which gives its special interest to
Bathybius is its enormous extent: whether it be continuous in one
vast sheet, or broken up into circumscribed individual particles, it
appears to extend over a large part of the bed of the ocean; and as
no living thing, however slowly it may live, is ever perfectly at
rest, but is continually acting and reacting with its surroundings,
the bottom of the sea becomes like the surface of the sea and of the
land--a theatre of change, performing its part in maintaining the
“balance of organic nature.”

Living upon and among this Bathybius, we find a multitude of other
protozoa--foraminifera and other rhizopods, radiolarians, and
sponges; and we as yet know very little of the life-history of these
groups.

Many foraminifera of different groups inhabit the deep water, lying
upon or mixed in the upper layer of the globigerina ooze, or fixed
to some foreign body, such as a sponge, coral, or stone; and all of
these are remarkable for their large size.

The few hauls of the dredge which we have already had in deep water
have been enough to teach us that our knowledge of sponges is in
its infancy--that those which we have collected from shallow water
along our shores, and even those few which have been brought up from
deep water on fishing lines, and have surprised us by the beauty of
their forms and the delicacy of their lustre, are the mere margin and
remnant of a wonderfully diversified sponge-fauna which appears to
extend in endless variety over the whole of the bottom of the sea.

The most remarkable new forms are referable to the group which seems
to be in a sense special to deep water, the Hexactinellidæ. One
of the most abundant and singular forms belonging to this order,
Holtenia carpenteri, is an oval or sphere 90 to 100 mm. in height,
with one large oscular opening at the top about 30 mm. in diameter,
whence a simple cylindrical cavity cupped at the bottom passes down
vertically into the substance of the sponge to the depth of 55 mm.
The outer wall of the sponge consists of a complicated network of
the cross-like heads of five-rayed spicules. One ray of each spicule
dips directly into the body of the sponge, and the other four, which
are at right angles to it, form a cross on the surface, giving it a
beautiful stellate appearance. The silicious rays of one star curve
toward and meet the rays of the neighboring stars, and run parallel
with them. All the rays of all the spicules are thickly invested
with consistent semi-transparent gelatinous matter, which binds
their concurrent branches together by an elastic union, and fills
up the angles of the meshes with softly curved viscous masses. This
arrangement of the spicules, free and yet adhering together by long
elastic connections, produces a strong, flexible, and very extensible
tissue. The cylindrical oscular cavity within the sponge is lined
with nearly the same kind of network.

When the sponge is living, the interstices of the silicious network
are filled up both outside and in with a delicate fenestrated
membrane formed of a glairy substance like white of egg, which
is constantly moving, extending or contracting the fenestræ, and
gliding over the surface of the spicules. This “sarcode,” which is
the living flesh of the sponge, contains distributed through it an
infinite number of very minute spicules, presenting the most singular
and elegant forms very characteristic of each species of sponge. A
constant current of water carried along by the action of cilia passes
in by apertures in the outer wall, courses through the passages in
the loose texture of the intermediate sponge-substance carrying
organic matter in solution and particles of nourishment into all its
interstices, and finally passes out by the large “osculum” at the
top. Over the upper third of the sponge a multitude of radiating
rigid silicious spicules form a kind of ornamental frill, and from
the lower third a perfect maze of delicate glassy filaments, like
fine white hair, spread out in all directions, penetrating the
semi-fluid mud, and supporting the sponge in its precarious bed by
increasing its surface indefinitely while adding but little to its
weight.

This is only one of the ways by which sponges anchor themselves in
the ooze of the deep sea. Hyalonema sends right down through the soft
mud a coiled wisp of strong spicules, each as thick as a knitting
needle, which open out into a brush as the bed gets firmer, and fix
the sponge in its place somewhat on the principle of a screw pile. A
very singular sponge from deep water off the Lofoten Islands spreads
into a thin circular cake, and adds to its surface by sending out a
flat border of silky spicules, like a fringe of white floss round
a little yellow mat; and the lovely Euplectella, whose beauty is
imbedded up to its fretted lid in the gray mud of the seas of the
Philippines, is supported by a frill of spicules standing up round it
like Queen Elizabeth’s ruff.

The sponges of the deep-water ooze are by no means confined to
one group. The Hexactinellidæ are perhaps the most abundant, but
corticate sponges even, closely allied to those which look so rigid
when fixed to stones in shallow water, send out long anchoring
spicules and balance themselves in the soft mud; and off the coast of
Portugal Mr. Gwyn Jeffreys dredged in 1870 several small forms of the
Halichondridæ, with long supporting fibrous beards.

From its appearance when brought up Holtenia evidently lives buried
in the mud to its upper fringe of spicules. When freshly dredged, it
is loaded with pale gray semi-fluid sarcode, full of Globigerinæ,
Triloculinæ, and other rhizopods, and covered in our northern
localities with the little ophiurid Amphiura abyssicola, Sars, and
the exquisitely delicate transparent clam, Pecten viterus Chemnitz.
Holtenia extends from the Butt of Lewis to Gibraltar, in from 500 to
1,000 fathoms.

In the Hexactinellidæ all the spicules, so far as we know, are
formed on the hexradiate plan; that is to say, there is a primary
axis, which may be long or short, and at one point four secondary
rays cross this central shaft at right angles. In many of the
Hexactinellidæ the spicules are all distinct, and combined, as in
Holtenia, by a small quantity of nearly transparent sarcode; but
in others, as in “Venus’s flower-basket,” and the nearly equally
beautiful genera Iphiteon, Aphrocallistes, and Farrea, the spicules
run together and make a continuous silicious network. When this is
the case the sponge may be boiled in nitric acid, and all the organic
matter and other impurities thus removed, when the skeleton comes out
a lovely lacy structure of the clearest glass. The six-rayed form of
the spicules gives the network which is the result of their fusion
great flexibility of design, with a characteristic tendency, however,
to square meshes.

Off the Butt of Lewis, in water of 450 to 500 fathoms, we met on two
occasions with full-grown specimens of a species of the remarkable
genus Hyalonema, with the coils in the larger examples upward of 40
centimetres in length.

A bundle of from 200 to 300 threads of transparent silica, glistening
with a silky lustre, like the most brilliant spun-glass--each
thread from 30 to 40 centimetres long, in the middle the thickness
of a knitting-needle, and gradually tapering toward either end to
a fine point; the whole bundle coiled like a strand of rope into
a lengthened spiral, the threads of the middle and upper portions
remaining compactly coiled by a permanent twist of the individual
threads; the lower part of the coil, which, when the sponge is
living, is imbedded in the mud, frayed out so that the glassy threads
stand separate from one another, like the bristles of a glittering
brush; the upper portion of the coil close and compact, imbedded
perpendicularly in a conical or cylindrical sponge; and usually
part of the upper portion of the silicious coil, and part of the
sponge-substance, covered with a brownish leathery coating, whose
surface is studded with the polypes of an alcyonarian zoophyte--such
is the general effect of a complete specimen of Hyalonema.

The genus was first known in Europe by specimens brought from Japan
by the celebrated naturalist and traveler, Von Siebold; and Japanese
examples of Hyalonema sieboldi, Gray, may now be found more or less
perfect in most of the European museums. When the first specimen of
Hyalonema was brought home, the other vitreous sponges which approach
it so closely in all essential points of structure were unknown.

In essential structure Hyalonema very closely resembles Holtenia,
and the more characteristic forms of the Hexactinellidæ. On one of
the Holteniæ from the Butt of Lewis, there was a little accumulation
of greenish granular matter among the fibres. On placing this under
the microscope it turned out to be a number of very young sponges,
scarcely out of their germ state. They were all at first sight
very much alike, minute pear-shaped bodies, with a long delicate
pencil of silky spicules taking the place of the pear-stalk. On
closer examination, however, these little germs proved to belong to
different species, each showing unmistakably the characteristic forms
of its special spicules. Most of them were the young of Tisiphonia,
but among them were several Holteniæ, and one or two were at once
referred to Hyalonema. In two or three hauls in the same locality
we got them in every subsequent stage--beautiful little pear-shaped
things, a centimetre long, with a single osculum at the top, and
the wisp like a small brush. At this stage the Palythoa is usually
absent, but when the body of the sponge has attained 15 mm. or so in
length very generally a little pink tubercle may be detected at the
point of junction between the sponge body and the coil, the germ of
the first polype.

During Mr. Gwyn Jeffreys’s cruise in 1870, two specimens of a
wonderful sponge belonging also to the Hexactinellidæ were dredged
in 374 fathoms in rocky ground off Cape St. Vincent. The larger of
these forms a complete vase of a very elegant form, nearly ninety
centimetres in diameter at the top and about sixty in height. The
sponge came up folded together, and had much the appearance of a
piece of coarse, grayish-colored blanket.

Near the mouth of the Strait of Gibraltar a number of species were
taken in considerable quantity, belonging to a group which were
at first confused with the Hexactinellidæ, on account of their
frequently forming a similar and equally beautiful continuous network
of silica, so as to assume the same resemblance to delicate lace when
boiled in nitric acid. The Corallio-spongiæ differ, however, from the
Hexactinellidæ in one very fundamental character. While in the latter
the spicule is hexradiate, in the former it consists of a shaft with
three diverging rays at one end.

This group of sponges are as yet imperfectly known. They seem to pass
into such forms as Geodia and Tethya; and the typical example with
which we are most familiar is the genus Dactylocalyx, represented by
the cup-shaped pumice-like masses which are thrown ashore from time
to time on the West Indian Islands.

Twelve species of stony corals were dredged in 1869.

From their considerable size, the length and rigidity of their
straggling rays, and their habit of clinging to fixed objects, the
Echinodermata are not very readily taken by the dredge, but they
fall an easy prey to the “hempen tangles.” It is possible that this
circumstance may to a certain extent exaggerate their apparent
abundance at great depths, but we have direct evidence in the actual
numbers which are brought up that in some places they must be
wonderfully numerous; and we frequently dredge sponges and corals
actually covered with them in the attitudes in which they lived,
nestling among their fibres and in the angles of their branches. I
have counted seventy-three examples of Amphiura abyssicola, small and
large, sticking to one Holtenia.

Both on account of their beauty and extreme rarity, and of the
important part they have borne in the fauna of some of the past
periods of the earth’s history, the first order of the Echinoderms,
the Crinoidea, has always had a special interest to naturalists; and,
on the watch as we were for missing links which might connect the
present with the past, we eagerly welcomed any indication of their
presence. Crinoids were very abundant in the seas of the Silurian
period. But during the lapse of ages the whole order seems to have
been worsted in the “struggle for life.” They become scarce in the
newer Mesozoic beds, still scarcer in the Tertiaries, and up to
within the last few years only two living stalked crinoids were known
in the seas of the present period, and these appeared to be confined
to deep water in the seas of the Antilles, whence fishermen from time
to time bring up mutilated specimens on their lines. Their existence
has been known for more than a century; but although many eyes have
been watching for them, until very lately not more than twenty
specimens had reached Europe, and of these only two showed all the
joints and plates of the skeleton, and the soft parts were lost in
all.

These two species belong to the genus Pentacrinus, which is well
represented in the beds of the lias and oolite, and sparingly in the
white chalk; and are named respectively Pentacrinus asteria, L., and
P. mülleri, Oersted. The first of these has been known in Europe
since the year 1755, when a specimen was brought to Paris from the
island of Martinique, and described by Guettard in the Memoirs of
the Royal Academy of Sciences. For the next hundred years an example
turned up now and then from the Antilles.

Pentacrinus asteria may be taken as the type of its order; I will
therefore describe it briefly. The animal consists of two well-marked
portions, a stem and a head. The stem, which is often from 40 to 60
centimetres in length, consists of a series of flattened calcareous
joints; it may be snapped over at the point of junction between
any two of these joints, and by slipping the point of a penknife
into the next suture a single joint may be removed entire. The
joint has a hole in the centre, through which one might pass a fine
needle. This hole forms part of a canal filled during life with a
gelatinous nutrient matter which runs through the whole length of
the stem, branches in a complicated way through the plates of the
cup, and finally passes through the axis of each of the joints of the
arms, and of the ultimate pinnules which fringe them. On the upper
and lower surfaces of the stem-joint there is a very graceful and
characteristic figure of five radiating oval leaf-like spaces, each
space surrounded by a border of minute alternate ridges and grooves.
The ridges of the upper surface of a joint fit into the grooves of
the lower surface of the joint above it; so that, though from being
made up of many joints the stem admits of a certain amount of motion,
that motion is very limited.

As the border of each star-like figure exactly fits the border of
the star above and below, the five leaflets within the border are
likewise placed directly one above the other. Within these leaflets
the limy matter which makes up the great bulk of the joint is more
loosely arranged than it is outside, and five oval bands of strong
fibres pass in the interspaces right through the joints, from joint
to joint, from one end of the stem to the other. These fibrous bands
give the column great strength. It is by no means easily broken even
when dead and dry. They also, by their elasticity, admit a certain
amount of passive motion. There are no muscles between the joints
of the stem, so that the animal does not appear to be able to move
its stalk at will. It is probably only gently waved by the tides and
currents, and by the movements of its own arms.

In Pentacrinus asteria about every seventeenth joint of the lower
mature part of the stem is a little deeper or thicker than the
others, and bears a whorl of five long tendrils or cirri. These
tendrils have no true muscles; they have, however, some power of
contracting round resisting objects which they touch, and there are
often star-fishes and other sea animals entangled among them.

Near the head the cirri become shorter and smaller, and their whorls
closer. At the top of the stem five little calcareous lumps like
buttons stand out from the projecting ridges, and upon these and upon
the upper part of the stem the cup which holds the viscera of the
animal is placed.

All the ordinary joints of the arms are provided with muscles
producing various motions, and binding the joints firmly together. If
one of the arms get entangled, or fall into the jaws or claws of an
enemy, by a jerk the star-fish can at once get rid of the embarrassed
arm; and as all this group have a wonderful power of reproducing lost
parts, the arm is soon restored.

Unfortunately, most of the examples of Pentacrinus asteria hitherto
procured have had the soft parts destroyed and the disk more or less
injured. One specimen, however, in my possession is quite perfect.
The body is covered above by a membrane closely tessellated with
irregularly formed flat plates. The mouth is a rounded opening of
considerable size in the centre of the disk, and opens into a stomach
passing into a short curved intestine which ends in a long excretory
tube--the so-called “proboscis” of the fossil crinoids--which rises
from the surface of the disk near the mouth. From the mouth five deep
grooves, bordered on either side by small square plates, run out to
the edge of the disk, and are continuous with the grooves on the
upper surface of the arms and pinnules, while in the angles between
them five thickened masses of the mailing of the disk surround the
mouth like valves. These were at first supposed to answer the purpose
of teeth. The crinoids, however, are not predatory animals. Their
nutrition is effected in a very gentle manner. The grooves of the
pinnules and arms are richly ciliated. The crinoid expands its arms
like the petals of a full-blown flower, and a current of sea-water
bearing organic matter in solution and suspension is carried by the
cilia along the brachial and radial grooves to the mouth. In the
stomach and intestine the water is exhausted of assimilable matter,
and the length and direction of the excretory proboscis prevent the
exhausted water from returning at once into the ciliated passages.

Two other fixed crinoids were dredged from the _Porcupine_, and these
must be referred to the Apiocrinidæ, which differ from all other
sections of the order in the structure of the upper part of the stem.

The Apiocrinidæ attained their maximum during the Jurassic period,
when they were represented by many fine species of the genera
Apiocrinus and Millericrinus. The chalk genus Bourguetticrinus shows
many symptoms of degeneracy. Rhizocrinus loffotensis, M. Sars, was
discovered in the year 1864, at a depth of about 300 fathoms, off the
Lofoten Islands, by G. O. Sars, a son of the celebrated Professor
of Natural History in the University of Christiania, by whom it was
described in the year 1868. It is obviously a form of the Apiocrinidæ
still more degraded than Bourguetticrinus, which it closely resembles.

The genus Bathycrinus must also be referred to the Apiocrinidæ, since
the lower portion of the head consists of a gradually expanding
funnel-shaped piece, which seems to be composed of coalesced upper
stem-joints. The stem of Bathycrinus gracilis is long and delicate;
in one example of a stem alone, which came up in the same haul with
the one nearly perfect specimen which was procured, it was 90 mm. in
length.

The general distribution of the deep-sea Asteridea has already been
referred to. Perhaps the most obvious peculiarity which they present
is the great preponderance of the genera Astrogonium, Archaster,
Astropecten, and their allies. Genera belonging to other groups do
not apparently become less numerous, for species of Asteracanthion,
Cribrella, Asteriscus, and Ophidiaster are as abundant as they are at
lesser depths; but as we go down new species with tessellated mailing
on the disk and massive marginal plates seem to be perpetually added.

Of the twenty-six Echinoderms dredged from the _Porcupine_,
seven--Porocidaris purpurata, Phormosoma placenta, Calveria hystrix,
C. fenestrata, Neolampas rostellatus, Pourtalesia jeffreysi, and
P. phiale--are forms which have been for the first time brought to
light during deep-sea dredging operations, whether on this or on
the other side of the Atlantic. There seems little doubt that these
must be referred to the abyssal fauna, upon whose confines we are
now only beginning to encroach. Three of the most remarkable generic
forms--Calveria, Neolampas, and Pourtalesia--have been found by
Alexander Agassiz among the results of the deep dredging operations
of Count Pourtales in the Strait of Florida, showing a wide lateral
distribution, while even a deeper interest attaches to the fact that
while one family type, the Echinothuridæ, has been hitherto only
known in a fossil state, the entire group finds nearer allies in the
extinct faunæ of the chalk or of the earlier Tertiaries than in that
of the present period.

Many of the mollusca from the deep water have hitherto been found
only in the northern portions of the area examined, and are generally
allied to northern forms.

The abyssal mollusca are by no means devoid of color, though, as
a rule, they are paler than those from shallow water. Neither are
the abyssal mollusca universally destitute of eyes. A new species
of Pleurotoma from 2,090 fathoms had a pair of well-developed eyes
on short foot-stalks; and a Fusus from 1,207 fathoms was similarly
provided. The presence of organs of sight at these great depths
leaves little room to doubt that light must reach even these abysses
from some source. From many considerations it can scarcely be
sunlight. The whole of the light beyond a certain depth might be due
to phosphorescence, which is certainly very general, particularly
among the larvæ and young of deep-sea animals.




  “THE MIMIC FIRES OF OCEAN”
  --G. CLARKE NUTTALL


Nature dazzles the eye of man with many wonderful phenomena, but
perhaps never more so than when she turns the gloomy night waters of
the sea into a sheet of silvery fire. At these times every movement
of the wave, every cleavage of the water by oar or prow, reveals
in its dark depths a hidden fire which scintillates and sparkles
with weird and mysterious light. The spectacle is one of absolute
fascination, for the Spirit of Enchantment rests upon the waters and
reality becomes fairyland.

The ancients, keenly alive to a sense of the supernatural, saw in
this luminosity a manifestation of some unknown power, and wondered;
the ignorant read in it a portent of judgment and terror; while
in all ages the curious and the searchers after knowledge have
speculated as to its cause. But just as Nature has invested its
appearance with a halo of mystery, so she has also wrapped in much
obscurity its immediate cause; and thus, though in the course of
centuries varying suggestions have been put forward, nothing with any
finality about it has been arrived at. It was asserted truly that
certain fishes were luminous; sharks have glowed and shone, shoals of
herrings, pilchards, or mackerel have been moving masses of light,
and the fish drawn out of the water have lain in great shining heaps,
the glow of which vanished as they dried and died.

Many writers have described the passages of ships through such
shoals--the sheet of moving flames--the beautiful pale greenish
elf-light that the fish exhibited; while poets have apostrophized
the “mimic fires of ocean” and the “lightnings of the wave,” and
scientists and naturalists have in turn tried to account for their
power of luminosity. Some have attributed it to the presence of
certain substances of a fatty nature excreted by the fish and
adhering to the surface of their bodies; others have declared that
it is due to a subtle power of the fish itself--a form in which the
energy of life shows itself under certain conditions, just as this
energy may be exhibited in heat, or motion, or electricity; others,
again, have ascribed it to direct absorption and transmission of the
light of the sun, and so on. Many theories have been elaborated, but
none convincingly.

But now, it is asserted, the secret is laid bare.

It is wonderful how many secrets the searching light of the
Nineteenth Century is claiming to reveal.

It is only lately that any very serious effort has been made to study
this phenomenon, but the research has been abundantly rewarded, for
it is now pretty certain that the luminosity is due to the presence
in the water of various kinds of bacteria.

Now, bacteria are the very smallest living organisms of which we
have cognizance. Millions of them can lie on a penny; therefore, to
produce the gleaming appearance recognized by us as phosphorescence,
they must be present in numbers too enormous even to contemplate with
our finite minds. It would be immeasurably easier to reckon with the
stars for multitude than with these phosphorescent bacteria. They are
colorless, rod-like bodies, only known to us in the land revealed
by the highest powers of the microscope, and careful comparison
shows minor differences among them. For instance, some of them are
capable of independent motion--we can hardly call it swimming--others
are non-motile, some are inclosed in a jelly-like covering, others
are without this sheath. Their power of motion is probably due to
excessively fine hairs at their extremities, which, moving to and fro
in the water, act the part of oars. These cilia have not been found
in all forms of bacteria which move, but their presence is inferred,
since every advance in the study of motile forms increases the number
of bacteria which are seen to possess them.

These light-producing bacteria are known as photo-bacteria, and so
far some half-dozen varieties have been distinguished and named.
The names in such cases are usually either given from the locality
of their appearance (thus, photo-bacterium Balticum, found in
the Baltic), from their discoverer (for example, photo-bacterium
Fischeri, after Professor Fischer), or from some striking attribute
(to wit, photo-bacterium phosphorescens, the commonest light-giving
species).

A Dutchman named Beyerinck has made a special study of these
photo-bacteria, and has experimented with them in a great number
of ways to determine, if possible, why they should thus become
illuminated, and if the light plays any notable part in their
life-history; but his results are, seemingly, all more or less of
a negative nature. He can not find that it has any very important
function. The breathing of these tiny organisms is not, apparently,
in any way bound up with it; their nutrition, growth, and development
go on quite well even if they are placed under such conditions that
their luminosity is arrested; in no way, indeed, is it a vital
process. It only seems to depend on the food which the bacteria feed
upon and the presence of oxygen. Given suitable food and plenty of
fresh air, and they exhibit their characteristic light; deprive them
of one or the other and they no longer shine.

This knowledge helps us to understand, then, the phenomenon of
phosphorescence. It is visible only at night because in the full
glare of day the greater light overpowers the lesser; it is visible
at certain times and seasons because the conditions are such as to
evoke it. And what is favorable for the lighting up of a single
bacterium is favorable for all; hence the myriad multitudes of
infinitesimal units, each set glowing with its tiny light, are
sufficient in the sum total to put a whole ocean aflame.

It would, of course, be presumptuous, and doubtless erroneous,
to say that all the phosphorescence of the sea is due solely to
photo-bacteria; it can only be asserted in the present state of our
knowledge that they are certainly responsible for a great share of
it. But this wonder of nature must now be regarded as yet another
instance of the mighty results accomplished through the agency of the
smallest of living things.




  THE JELLY-FISH AND OTHER HYDROZOA
  --P. MARTIN DUNCAN


If anybody were asked to name the commonest objects on a sandy or
pebbly seashore, the reply would be--sea-weed, crabs, limpets, a
stranded jelly-fish, looking like so much blubber, and a sea-gull
flying overhead. The first three things really belong to the shore;
the bird is a visitor that is looking after food, and the large,
turned-upside-down, basin-shaped, jelly-looking mass is a waif from
the ocean. If one of these stranded jelly-fish is looked at, as it
lies on the sand, its shape appears to be something like that of
an umbrella without the stick. It is thick, however, and has some
curious markings about its surface and inside. Even something like
a fringe of thick hairs may be detected around the edge. On trying
to take it up or turn it over, the fingers go into it, so readily
does the animal tear; but on getting the umbrella on its back,
the underneath part is seen to be made up, in the middle, of some
projections slightly more solid than the rest of the body; and if put
between them, the finger passes through a sort of tube into a cavity
in the body, which is the stomach.

Some of these jelly-fish, or Medusæ, as they are called, are pounds
in weight; but after a while only a shred of membrane-looking stuff
remains, the water which makes up nearly all the animal having
drained away. It is evident that the large Medusæ grow from small
ones, and that there are many kinds of them, some of which are always
small. A great jelly-fish, two feet across, was once a little one,
leading exactly the same life. They grow, and to grow they must have
nourishment; they are never still, and their muscles, transparent as
they may be, have to be nourished, or their strength would soon give
way. They require not only food, but also air in the water, so that
they consume it, and make its oxygen gas of use to them. They seek
the light in a remarkable manner, and get out of the way of things
very gracefully, and their motions are rhythmical, like the ticks of
a clock, in succession. Have they nerves and eyes? Science answers in
the affirmative. These creatures, consisting of a vast proportion of
sea-water, breathe, digest, and feed. More than this, they produce
young; and if they are pale in color, bluish, or roseate in hue
during the day, they are the glory of the deep during the night; and
each one is a globe of light, the luminousness being the result of
the action of the mysterious energy of life upon matter.

Many of the jelly-fish found on the shores dead and injured are
eighteen inches across, and it is not uncommon to see one swimming
freely whose body is larger than that. Yet in spite of this size, and
of the gifts of the creature, it has one of the shortest of lives,
and it is born, grown, and dead between the spring and the winter.

[Illustration: Typical Radiolaria

1, Rhizosphæra; 2, Sphærozoum; 3, Actinomma; 4, Lithomespilus; 5,
Ommatocampe; 6, Carpocaium; 7, Challengeron; 8, Heliosphæra; 9,
Clathrocyclas; 10, Dictyophimus]

On examining a large jelly-fish, it will be noticed to have not only
four round bodies on the top, round the centre, and the four lobes
hanging down beneath, but that the edges of the body are not quite
round, but are notched, so as to make eight lobes to it. And if a
little care be taken, marks can be seen on the under part of the
body, from the round centre spots to each of the eight splits in the
disk; and a magnifying-glass shows a little substance there which
feels gritty, and is sometimes colored. Other branching tube-marks
pass from the midst of the body to the edge of the umbrella, and a
tube runs all round the edge. The tubes communicate in the midst of
the body with a cavity, into which the finger can pass between
the four under lobes--the stomach--and the digested matters pass
into them to nourish the creature. Around the disk or umbrella, and
outside the circular tube, is the fringe of hairs which have, to a
certain extent, to do with the capture of prey. Each consists of a
filmy substance, in which are fixed thread-cells, not very unlike
those of the sea-anemone, but they have longer barbs and sharper
thorns stretching out from them. Any violence or irritation causes
the thread to shoot forth and to injure. The rest of the body of the
Medusa is covered with an excessively thin skin, which has movable
cilia upon it. It is supposed, and with some reason--for nervous
threads and bodies have been found on the disk, close to the gritty
bodies especially--that these last are eyes, or ears, or both. The
nerves supply the muscles that move the umbrella, and cause it to
expand and contract, and the muscles are remarkable, for some are not
simple contracting fibres all made of one piece, as in the Anemone
tribe.

The jelly-fish, when in full vigor and weighing many pounds, must
catch and eat much, and the manner in which this is done is by no
means perfectly understood. The food is digested, and the results
are taken from the stomach into the numerous tubes in the body,
where they nourish the tissues. The movements of the animal and its
extremely delicate membranes enable much water to come in contact
with it, and it breathes by that means, for there are no special
gills or lungs.

The four round spots on the top of the body, sometimes white and
sometimes red in color, are spaces in the body, and they open into
the central stomach. The circles of these chambers are lined with
ciliate membrane, and in some places it is arranged in folds, and
in them the eggs or ova form. Little oval or roundish things, like
pins’ heads are they: they burst forth and pass out of the stomach,
and then through the canal into the four lobes hanging down like
pouting lips. Here they rest a while until a little grown, and they
start out on their journey of life in the autumn time as little oval
or long things made up of cells, the outside ones having movable
hairs also on them. Totally unlike the parent, the tiny offspring
floats off with the tide and does a little work in moving itself
with its hairy covering. Sooner or later this minute thing, which
is called a planula, settles on a stone or piece of sea-weed, and
begins to grow. First of all its outer skin is formed into a hollow
on the top, a kind of basin-shaped cavity being produced. This is the
future stomach. Then some little projections grow around the hollow,
and stick out in the water like so many rays, and they increase in
number and length very rapidly. Under this shape the creature has
been described as a hydra or a polype, and it really resembles a
small sea-anemone with very long and slender tentacles. But the
internal anatomy differs. The creature is all stomach and tentacles,
and it grows by catching small prey. All the elaborate tissues of
the jelly-fish are absent and the creature can not move. It is this
curious condition of life that brings the jelly-fish tribe within
notice of a seashore observer, for those little hydras live in some
places at low-water mark. The knowledge that the hydra was the
child of the jelly-fish was obtained many years ago by a Scotch and
by a Scandinavian naturalist. It was known that some small kinds of
jelly-fish which were kept in sea-water in an aquarium disappeared
altogether in the late autumn. Then it was noticed that there were
many very small things with tentacles, on the sides of the glass,
which had not been noticed before. And at last the curious discovery
was made that these hydras or planulas reproduced jelly-fish the
next year. This is a very strange story, and the course of nature’s
proceeding is, that when food has become scarce and the boisterous
waves would become fatal to the delicate Medusa, it shall lay eggs
which produce creatures that can settle down out of the way of the
rush of water, and that require but little food. Then in the next
year when food is in plenty, the progeny separate into jelly-fish
like the parent. The hydras or progeny have no power of laying
eggs; they digest and produce the creature that shall lay eggs.
The Scandinavian naturalists and Germans called this “alternate
generation,” and named the hydra the nurse of the jelly-fishes.
This is the method by which most of the jelly-fish, which may be
occasionally seen stranded on the coast, were produced; but there are
some whose planulas do not settle down, but are always free swimmers,
and they divide into Medusæ in the sea.

This intensely interesting course of life is modified in all
the hundreds of kinds of creatures which are connected with the
jelly-fish in classification, by their having many structures in
common. The creatures thus classified with the jelly-fish are
called Hydrozoa, or Water Animals, and they pass two lives, one of
which is commonly observed on the seashore everywhere. One life is
a fixed one, and the other is a free swimming one; in one stage it
is eating and drinking, and in the other, these functions are not
always or often carried out. The egg-laying and perpetuation of the
animal are the duty of the greater part of the beautiful branched
and hair-like things which are arranged by visitors to the seaside
in patterns, and retained as memorials of pleasant days, and which
are popularly called sea-weeds. They are not such things, but are the
delicate stems, branches, and bud-like homes of the parents of tiny
jelly-fish, which are only to be caught in the open sea. These horny
stems and branches end in creatures with tentacles or feelers, and
they live between tides, in rock pools, and at low water.

Sometimes these fragile, plant-looking things are fixed on to stones
or sea-weed, and some get a ride by growing on shells, inhabited,
since the death of their original possessor, by the Hermit Crab.

One very numerous tribe of these feathery-looking weeds, but which
are truly animals, is common everywhere on the shore, between
tide-marks into deep water. Their stems are branching, and the
little bud-like things on them, when watched in still water, may
be seen to put forth pretty colored bodies with tentacles around a
centre; and as there may be hundreds of them on the branches and
stem, the creature resembles a bunch of rayed flowers. Hence the name
Sertularia, from sertula, a small garland.

These Sertularians were noticed and drawn many years ago, and were
called Corallines. This is a great mistake, because the Coralline is
a plant covered with carbonate of lime. The correct name would be
the Garland polypes. When we get a bunch of these creatures from the
seaside they are dead, and the hard and preservable outside parts
alone are left, all the beauty of color and the wonderful inside
structure are gone. But even then it can be noticed that the stems
of the creature arise from a network of tubes fixed on to stones,
sea-weeds, and shells. This resembles a root, but it does not absorb
nourishment like the root of a plant. The stems, often not bigger
than hairs, are hollow, and the branches also. The surface of the
branches is covered on one, or often on both sides, by minute cups.
These give almost a saw-edge look to it, in some of the creatures;
and among these cups, which are open at their free end, are some
larger ones, which are closed where free, and often ribbed and
ornamented on their outside. It is noticed that the hollow of the
stem and branches is continued into the cups, but not into the closed
ones, and that these are shut off from it by a very delicate layer of
tissue. This is the minute structure of these things when dead; but
when alive, the inside of the stem and branches is filled with a soft
substance, which reaches up to the part where each of the cups is
attached to the outside. The cups, hundreds in number, on each stem
and branch, contain a most beautiful flower-like polype. Variously
colored, according to the kind, it has a bell shape, and has a spot
for the mouth, which leads to a stomach, whose floor is connected
with the pith of the whole branch. Around the mouth are numerous
tentacles excessively irritable, capable of stinging and paralyzing
prey; and the spectacle of hosts of these, all working for the common
good of the branching animal, is very beautiful. Sometimes there
is much red in the color, at other times green, yellow, or a dull
tint; and in order to relieve the sameness of outline presented by
thousands of cups, their horny margin is spined or toothed. In full
vigor during the summer, and living through the winter and probably
for several years, these cups with their tentacled polypes contribute
to the growth and nutrition of the whole. They all work for a common
end, and that is for the persistence of the life of the colony. They
live on microscopic things in the water, such as minute ova, or
the young of things like unto themselves, and on animalcules, and
probably on the moving spores of sea-weeds. As the spring advances,
the larger and closed cups begin to grow by budding from the stem,
and they become filled with a gummy substance with a few granules in
it, and somewhat resembling the pith of the stem. As the closed cup
grows, it often becomes marked on the outside with rings or belts,
and it becomes a very prominent object on the horny-looking Garland
polype. These closed cups are concerned in the reproduction of the
creature, for after a few weeks the substance inside them is seen to
collect into bunches of round or oval bodies, often yellow in color,
or of other tints. By and by the cup bursts, or a sort of trap-door
opens at the top, and these things escape. They are small, covered
with cilia, or moving hairs, and resemble the planulas of the
jelly-fish in shape, and they swim freely, and finally settle down on
a stone or weed. They become environed by a horny coat, the stomach
having been formed first by simple bending in of the outside of the
creature, and tentacles grow. The planula thus founds a new colony.
But there are other phases in this curious life-story; for instead of
the little round balls in the closed cups getting free as planulas,
some in certain kinds grow there, and resemble excessively minute
jelly-fish stuck fast by the back, and exposing the mouth, feet, and
the fringed umbrella. These Medusæ, as they may be called, die on the
parent, and never wander.

There is one kind of these Garland polypes called Lafœa in which the
round bodies produced in the closed cups burst forth, and not in the
shape of planulas. They come forth like tiny bells, furnished with
minute eye-spots on the edge, and they have an umbrella shape, and
long tentacles arising from the edge near the eye-spots. They are
jelly-fish, to all intents and purposes, and swim freely about, and
in time produce planulas which develop into a parent Garland polype
again.

There is a very interesting kind of these allies of the sea-jellies
which, from its feathery shape, has been called Plumularia. Specimens
are common, and there is a stem, and it has branches, and the cups
are in one row on the branchlets. Moreover, there are openings in
the horny envelope of the soft pith of the branches, which do not
give exit to a polype-looking thing with its mouth surrounded with
tentacles, but to a simple pith with many threads or stinging cells
in it. It is more or less like a long tongue, and is placed among the
cups with polypes, and it is evidently an instrument for capturing
minute creatures. The Sickle-beard is one of them.

But one of the most singular of these delicate creatures lives in
very numerous colonies, on such an unexpected place as the outside of
the shell tenanted within by a wandering hermit-crab. It is called
Hydractinia. The Hydractinia has a kind of crust for its formation,
with tubes in it, and out from them comes a white film, which, under
a magnifying-glass, presents a number of stems and polypes. Each one
has at its free part a club-shaped end, which has several rows of
tentacles around it. These, often twenty-five in number, are, like
the stem, very irritable, flexible, and are covered with a sticky
matter. The club is hollow within, for the stomach, and food gets in
by the top, where the horny skin appears to be absent.

The tentacles are rather sharp, and when they are half-contracted
they often appear to have a knob at the end, otherwise they are stuck
out and are like so many thick threads. The stalk which supports
the conical-shaped head has a thin and wrinkled skin with sharp,
dot-like points on it, and probably they secrete a sticky substance.
The polypes thus formed cluster together like so much moss on the
shell, and it would appear, if not in the English species, certainly
in one which frequents the American coasts, that some groups are male
and others female. But there is no doubt, from the researches of Mr.
Moseley, F.R.S., of the _Challenger_, that some of the polypes act
as catchers of food, and feed those which pay especial attention
to increasing and multiplying. These last have minute little knobs
growing on the stalk beneath the head, and which develop round
bodies inside. After a while motion is noticed in them, and there is
every reason to believe that they burst forth and swim off as small
jelly-fish. Some, however, give out little planulas, which settle
down and grow like the parent.

It will have been noticed from this description that these polypes
are different in shape from the Garland polypes and that instead
of being bell-shaped, with tentacles around the mouth, they are
club-shaped, and have more than one row of tentacles half way down.
This last shape gives a characteristic to many little polypes which
lead, like the others, two lives--one fixed on the seashore on plants
and stones, and the other, freely swimming, as a pretty little
jelly-fish.

Another kind lives fixed on sea-weeds in shallow water, and its stem
consists of a single tube, which is creeping and threadlike. The cups
for the polype are on long stalks, with markings like rings on them,
and are bell-shaped with a toothed edge. The mouth is surrounded
by tentacles, as in the Garland polype, and, in fact, there is not
much outside distinction between them and this Campanularia, or Bell
polype.

There is a stomach in the polype bud which leads to a canal that
goes down the stalk, and even into the creeping stem or root. The
buds, on stalks of their own, are very remarkable. They contain,
soon after they are formed, numerous little jelly-fish attached to
stalks. There may be twenty or thirty of these in each bud, and the
day will come when they will burst forth, be cast loose from their
stems, and swim off. They resemble hand-bells of a very flat kind,
and the mouth is prolonged into a four-parted projection, which
protrudes through a structure not seen in the great jelly-fish, but
peculiar to these smaller ones, which fills up the disk underneath,
from the mouth to the edge, with a layer of muscular fibres. They
have four long tentacles, and when they have lived for some time they
begin to play some very curious tricks. Thus a foreign naturalist,
M. Van Beneden, was examining some creatures in his aquarium, and
found hundreds of these very small jelly-fish, and he caught some
in order to examine them with his microscope. He began to draw some
of them carefully in order to write a description of them. About an
hour afterward, on again looking at his specimen, he was amazed to
find its shape changed, and the animal apparently turned inside out.
The tentacles on the edge seemed to be reversed in their position;
the umbrella-like dome, from being convex was the reverse, and
the curled lip-like proboscis seemed converted into the stem of a
solitary polype. One of these Campanularians, called erroneously the
Wrinkled-thread Coralline, grows on sea-weeds near low-water mark,
and especially on the great Riband Tangle. It is a small thing, about
an inch in height, and its stem is of a pink or rose-red color; it is
sparingly branched in a zigzag manner, and its stem is ringed. The
buds develop jelly-fish, but they never escape, and hang on by stalks
for the rest of their lives.




  FISHES
  --ANDREW WILSON


This division every one must know as that of the Vertebrata, a
word which may be used in a popular sense, as corresponding to the
expression “backboned” animals. At the head of this group man and
quadrupeds are found, while the fishes form the lowest class in the
division.

There are few groups of the animal world more interesting to the
ordinary observer than that of the fishes. To survey the various
forms and shapes presented by these animals as displayed in a great
museum should prove a sufficient incentive to gain a more intimate
acquaintance with the class; and when, even in a popular sense, we
investigate the structure and habits of fishes, the study increases
in its fascination and interest. While if we reflect that on a
knowledge of the habits of fishes, of their distribution in our
oceans and seas, and of the special products which many of them offer
for our use and luxury, the commercial success of our fisheries
depends, it can need no further argument to convince us that, after
all, there is something of great practical benefit to be derived from
the study of zoological science.

It is not our intention at present to say anything regarding the
commercial or economic aspects of fishes, and even their general
habits must be very briefly touched upon. We rather aim at giving
some account of the structure of the fishes, and at noting such
peculiarities in their habits and life as may prove most interesting
to our readers. Primarily, then, we find that fishes may be
recognized by having the body usually, but not always, covered with
_scales_, of various forms and kinds. Then, secondly, we have the
limbs represented by certain _fins_; and, thirdly, we find almost
all fishes to breathe by _gills_ during the whole of life. These
three points are, in the main, sufficient to distinguish fishes from
their higher as well as their lower neighbors. The scales which cover
the bodies of fishes present great diversities in shape, size, and
appearance. Some fishes thus exhibit an utter want of scales; while
others, like knights of old, are incased in a veritable suit of scaly
armor. The lampreys, and their curious neighbors the hag-fishes, are
destitute of scales; and in our familiar eels, the scales are very
small and insignificant. Such fishes, however, are amply compensated
for the want of scales by the power they possess of throwing out from
the skin a vast quantity of glutinous or oily matter, technically
named _mucus_. The presence of this secretion, which has given origin
to the phrase “as slippery as an eel,” serves to protect the surface
of the body, and no doubt also assists in the easy progress of these
fishes through the water. So large is the quantity of this oily
matter which the hag-fishes can emit from their body, that one form
has received the specific name of glutinosa; the fish being able in
this way to literally convert the water of the vessel in which it is
contained into a jelly-like mass. The familiar blennies, found in
rock-pools after the tide has receded, are also able to emit a large
amount of this glutinous fluid.

Illustrating the opposite extreme of the development of scales,
we find such fishes as the bony pikes of North American lakes and
rivers, the bodies of which are covered with an armor of closely
fitting and overlapping scales or plates, named ganoid, from their
shining appearance (Greek _ganos_, splendor). The scales of this
fish are said to be employed in the manufacture of the little
“mother-of-pearl” buttons, so commonly used. Many fossil fishes were
also abundantly provided with these hard, bony plates; and our living
sturgeons possess scales of similar nature, although in the latter
fishes they do not completely cover the body. The bright silvery
scales of the herring and its neighbors are thin structures, and
are very easily detached from the skin; and a curious form of scale
is seen in the perches; the hinder edge of each scale in the latter
case being cut into comb-like teeth. In the sharks, skates, and rays,
the scales are small and horny, and are often provided with little
spines. If we draw our hand along the back of a dog-fish from tail to
head, as when we stroke a cat’s back the wrong way, we feel numerous
small projecting points, borne on the scales. The rough skin surface
thus produced is frequently used under the name of “shagreen” in
the manufacture of spectacle-cases and like articles, and is also
employed for polishing the surface of wood.

In their general shape the bodies of fishes exhibit a great
compression from side to side, a rounding of the sides, and
a pointing of either extremity, adapting the animals for easy
progression through the water. Some fishes, such as the soles,
flounders, plaice, etc., are named “flat fishes” from the great
flattening exhibited by their bodies; although, at the same time, it
is important to observe that these fishes are simply more compressed
from side to side than their neighbors. Most persons, on looking at
a sole or flounder, are apt to think that one of the flat surfaces
must represent the back, and the other the under surface of the
body. This idea is strengthened by the fact that the so-called back
surface is dark, and the apparent under surface light in color, and
because both eyes exist on the dark-colored surface. That, however,
the flat surfaces are really the _sides_ of the fish may be seen by
noting that on each surface a breast-fin is developed; these fins
being placed invariably one on each side of the body. And while the
eyes in early life are disposed one on each side of the head, in the
position in which eyes are naturally situated, they are gradually
brought round to one side by the bones of the head becoming curiously
twisted in the course of development. Thus these fishes lie and swim
on one side--that which is light-colored--and present a most singular
combination of curious and abnormal features.

The fins of fishes constitute interesting features in their
structure. Almost all fishes have two sets of fins--those which
exist in pairs and those which are unpaired, and which are developed
in the middle line of the body. To the former class belong the two
pectoral or “breast-fins” and the two ventral or “belly-fins.” The
“breast-fins” correspond to the forelegs of other animals or to the
arms of man; while the ventral fins correspond to the hindlegs or to
man’s lower limbs; and these latter fins may be placed, as hind-limbs
should be, to the rear of the body (as in sturgeons); or they may be
found (as in the cod) placed beneath the breast-fins on the throat.

It may be asked, How do we know that these two pairs of fins
represent the limbs of other animals? We reply, because when we
investigate their structure we find them to be supported by a bony
skeleton, the various portions of which correspond to those existing
in the skeleton of the limbs of man or other vertebrates. And it is
only through this important principle of tracing out what are known
as the homologies or resemblances between parts, and by looking at
and comparing their structure, that we are enabled to find out the
real nature of many organs in animals; similar organs frequently
existing under very different and varied guises.

The other fins of fishes do not exist in pairs, but are placed in
the middle line of the body. Hence they are named the median or
unpaired fins. Thus we find the back or dorsal fins to represent the
unpaired fins, as also do the tail and anal fins; the latter being
placed on the lower surface of the body. These unpaired fins, if
they correspond to any other structures in the fishes, are simply to
be regarded as special developments of the skin, and therefore bear
no true relationship to the limbs of other animals. We may find one
or more dorsal and one or more anal fins; but the tail-fin, by the
action of which, as every one knows, the fish chiefly swims, is
always single, but may be divided into halves. Most of our common
fishes have the halves of the tail-fin of equal size; others, such as
the sharks, sturgeons, etc., having the upper half greatly exceeding
the lower half of the tail-fin in size. In one species of shark,
named the Thresher or Fox-shark, the upper half of the tail-fin
appears enormously developed as compared with the lower half; and the
names of this species have been derived from the use the fish makes
of its tail in lashing the water, and from the long-tailed appearance
suggesting a resemblance to the familiar Reynard of the land. In
fishes the tail-fin is always placed vertically, or in the same line
as the body, and moves from side to side; while in the whales--which
are not fishes, but Mammalia or quadrupeds possessing fish-like
bodies--the tail-fin is placed across the body. Some fishes may
want arms or legs--that is, the pectoral or ventral fins; the eels,
for example, possessing no ventral fins. The flying-fishes, on the
contrary, possess a very large development of the pectoral or breast
fins, and support themselves temporarily in the air by their aid.

Fishes are usually very well provided in the matter of teeth. What
would be thought of a quadruped which had teeth not only in its jaws,
but had its tongue, its palate, the sides and floor of its mouth,
and other parts, also bearing rows of these structures? Yet such
is the case with many fishes. Then, also, where the teeth of one
set in fishes are lost, or destroyed through the natural wear and
tear to which they are subjected, new teeth are developed to supply
the place of the lost members. Any one may gain a good idea of the
formidable array of teeth in fishes, and of the manner in which one
set succeeds another, by inspecting the jaws of a shark in a museum.
In fishes the teeth are not implanted in sockets, but are fastened by
ligaments to the surface of the bones which bear them. Sometimes one
tooth only is developed in fishes. This is the case in the curious,
eel-like hag-fishes already mentioned; these fishes possessing but
a single large tooth, borne on the palate; and by means of this
formidable weapon, which possesses saw-like edges, they bore their
way into the bodies of other fishes, and there take up their abode
as unwelcome guests. A cod or large haddock may sometimes be found
with five or six hags contained in its interior. The parrot-fishes,
or Scari, of tropical seas, are so named from their possessing jaws
shaped like the beaks of those familiar birds, and these jaws are
rendered all the more extraordinary from their being covered or
incrusted by numerous small teeth, which are as closely packed on the
jaw as paving-stones are in a street, and which serve these fishes
as useful instruments when they feed upon the living parts of the
hard and limy coral-animals. In the jaws and floor of the mouth of
the Port Jackson shark, or in the Eagle rays, or skates, the teeth
may be seen to be flat and broad. Such teeth form a regular pavement
arranged like a mosaic pattern, and are admirably adapted for
crushing whatever substances enter the mouth.

Fishes are well provided in the way of digestive apparatus. A
throat or gullet, stomach, intestines, liver, and other glands,
serve for the digestion of the food, and a heart and blood-vessels
exist for the circulation of the blood thus manufactured from the
food. The blood is purified in the gills. Each gill--consisting
in common fishes of a supporting “arch” bearing a great number of
delicate filaments arranged like the teeth of a comb--may be viewed
as simply a network of blood-vessels. The blood, pumped into this
network by the heart, is purified by the action of the oxygen gas
contained in the pure water which the fish is constantly taking into
its gill-chamber by its mouth; while the pure blood is recirculated
through the body, and the water used in breathing is got rid of by
being ejected behind the “gill-cover” at the neck, so as to allow a
fresh inflow to be drawn in by the mouth. The gills of some fishes
may be very differently constructed from those of the common members
of the class. Thus the lampreys breathe by pouch-like gills which
open each by a separate aperture. Seven gill-apertures may be seen
on each side of the neck of the common lamprey; and the sharks,
skates, and their neighbors also breathe by sac-like gills. Certain
curious facts regarding the breathing of fishes will be afterward
alluded to. Fishes illustrate plainly what is meant by aquatic or
water-breathing. They possess gills or organs, adapted for separating
the atmospheric air which is entangled or contained in the water;
land animals breathing the same air directly from the atmosphere.

That fishes are wary and active, and possess senses of acute
nature, are facts well known to all. The lowest fish, the little
clear-bodied lancelet, possesses no brain whatever, and no organ
of hearing is developed, while the eyes are at the best of very
simple and rudimentary structure. In other fishes, again, the brain
and nervous system not only acquire a typical development, but
the senses also advance in perfection. The sense of sight is of
perfect kind, the eyes of fishes being adapted for seeing in the
dense medium in which they live; while the sense of smell is also
developed, although, curiously enough, the nostrils, in all except
two kinds of fishes--the hag-fishes and the curious Lepidosiren or
mud-fish--are pocket-like in nature, and do not open backward, as in
higher animals, into the mouth. The sense of taste is not exercised
in a high degree by fishes, and it is interesting to observe that the
sense of touch appears to reside especially in the sides of the body,
on which surfaces a well-marked line--the “lateral line”--may be
observed in most fishes. This lateral line is connected with a series
of canals or sacs abundantly supplied with nerves. The function
of these organs is believed to be that of exercising the sense of
touch; and from the manner in which many fishes swim against objects,
and bring the sides of their bodies in gentle contact with foreign
objects, there would seem to exist strong reasons for supporting the
above idea. That fishes “hear” is a well-known fact. No outer ear is
developed, but an internal ear--the essential part of the organ of
hearing--is found in all fishes except the little lancelet.

While the intelligence or instinct of fishes is not, generally
speaking, of a high order, there are not wanting instances to prove
that these animals may exhibit traits of character sometimes wanting
in higher groups of animals. Any one who has kept gold-fishes must
have noted that in time they become more and more familiar with the
hand that feeds them, and the experience of aquarium keepers goes to
prove that some fishes may even show signs of recognizing friends.

Like the human race, the class of fishes evinces many illustrations
of individuals and groups which differ more or less widely from their
more commonplace neighbors. To some of the more curious of these “odd
fishes” we may next direct attention.

A very singular little group of fishes, for example, is that known to
the naturalist by the name Lophobranchii; this term meaning literally
“tuft-gilled.” Included in this division are two curious families, of
one of which the sea-horses or Hippocampi are the representatives;
while to the other family belong their allies, the pipe-fishes. No
more interesting forms than these two groups can well be selected
from the great class of which they are little-known members. And the
interest with which they are regarded by zoologists extends beyond
the mere investigation of their outside form or appearance; since
they present, in many points of their economy and habits, very marked
deviations from what one may call the ordinary course of fish-life.

Imagine a little body from four to six inches in length, topped
by a head which in outline exactly resembles that of a horse, and
which tapers off below, or rather behind, into a lithe, flexible,
and pointed tail, and we may form a rough idea of the general
appearance of one of the sea-horses. This little body we shall find
to be covered with ganoid plates or scales of hard horny or bony
material, exhibiting ridges and angles all over its surface. Two
large brilliant eyes, each of which may be moved independently of the
other, add to the curious appearance of the head; while to the body
itself may be attached long streamers of sea-weed, serving to conceal
the little beings as they nestle amid their marine bowers, each
looking like some veritable creation of heraldic or mythological kind.

The flexible tail which terminates the body has the important office
of mooring or attaching the fishes to any fixed object. As we see
them in the aquarium, they are generally poised, as it were, on
the tail; the latter being coiled around a bit of sea-weed, while
the erect body and head look warily through the waters of their
miniature sea. When they detach themselves, they swim about in the
erect position by means of the two pectoral or breast fins, which
being placed close to the sides of the neck, project like veritable
ears, and assist in rendering the equine appearance of the head of
still more realistic nature. These fins move with a quick twittering
motion, and propel their possessor swiftly through the water; while
the back-fin, placed toward the hinder extremity of the body, also
assists them in swimming.

Some curious points in the internal structure of the sea-horses
warrant a brief notice. As already stated, the gills of an ordinary
fish are shaped each like a comb; the teeth of the comb being
represented by the delicate processes, each consisting in reality
of a network of blood-vessels, in which the blood is exposed to
the oxygen of the water, and is thus purified. In the sea-horses,
however, the gills do not present this comb-like appearance,
but exist in the form of separated tufts or bunches of delicate
filaments, which spring from the gill-supports or arches. From this
peculiarity the name “tuft-gilled,” already alluded to, is derived,
and the pipe-fishes agree in the structure of the gills with the
sea-horses. Then, also, as most readers are aware, the gills of
ordinary fishes are covered by a horny plate, appropriately named
the gill-cover, and it is by sharply compressing the gills with this
cover that the water used in breathing is ejected from the gills, so
as to make room for a fresh supply. In the sea-horses, however, the
gill-cover is not open or free at its under and hinder edges, but is
firmly attached all round to the neighboring tissues, and so rendered
immovable. At one point in its circumference, however, a small
aperture is left, through which the breathing-water escapes from the
gills.

The sea-horses are found abundantly in the English Channel, around
the coasts of France and Spain, in the Mediterranean Sea, and in the
tropical oceans. Several distinct species are known to zoologists,
but they closely resemble one another in the essential features just
noted. They are lively and intelligent little creatures, and become
familiar in time with their possessors. Fixed by their tails, they
may be seen actively to dart the head at any passing object adapted
for food; while, when they wish to free their bodies from the
attached position, they appear to manœuvre with the chin and head in
order to effect their purpose. Their food appears to consist of small
crustaceans, worms, etc.; and they are known to be especially fond of
such delicate titbits as are afforded by the eggs of other fishes.

Perhaps the most curious part of the history of the sea-horses
relates to their care of the young. Fishes generally take little
or no care of their offspring, and it is therefore the more
surprising to encounter in these little beings a singular example
of parental fidelity and attachment. Nor, as might be expected,
is it the mother-fish who is charged with the task of attending
the young. Contrary to the general rule, the male fish assumes the
part of nurse, and well and faithfully does he appear to discharge
his duties. At the root of the tail in the male sea-horse a
curious little pouch is seen. In this pouch the eggs laid by the
females--which want the pouch--are deposited, and are therein duly
hatched. Nor does the parental duty end here; for after the young are
hatched and swim about by themselves, they seek refuge in the pouch
during the early or infantile period of their life whenever danger
threatens them. This procedure forcibly reminds one of the analogous
habits of the kangaroos and their young; but the occurrence is the
more remarkable in the lower and presumably less intelligent fish.

Some experiments made on the sea-horses seem to demonstrate the
existence of a more than ordinary degree of attachment to the young.
Thus when a parent-fish was taken out of the water, the young
escaped from the pouch; but on the parent being held over the side of
the boat, the young at once swam toward him, and re-entered the pouch
without hesitation. Some authorities have not hesitated to express
an opinion that the young are nourished within the pouch by some
fluid or secretion of its lining membrane. But further observation is
certainly necessary before this latter opinion can be relied upon.

The pipe-fishes are very near neighbors of the sea-horses, and derive
their name from the thin elongated shape of their bodies, together
with the fact that the jaws are prolonged to form a long pipe-like
snout, at the extremity of which the mouth opens. These fishes are
very lively in all their movements, and dart through the water so
quickly that in many cases the eye is unable to follow them. Like the
sea-horses, the male pipe-fishes protect and tend their progeny, and
exhibit an equal attachment to their young.

These latter features are also well exemplified by the familiar
sticklebacks of our ponds and streams. The latter fishes actually
build nests for the reception and care of their eggs, the nests being
made chiefly or solely by the males; while on the latter, during the
process of hatching and in the upbringing of the young, devolves
the chief care of protecting and looking after the welfare of the
progeny. These instances of the care and duties which devolve on the
males, instead of on the mother-parents, appear to reverse the more
natural order which almost universally obtains in the case of both
lower and higher animals.

Of the oddities which fish-life presents, probably none are more
remarkable than the archer or shooter fishes (Toxotes), which inhabit
the seas of Japan and of the Eastern Archipelago. When kept in
confinement, these fishes may be seen to shoot drops of water from
their elongated jaws at flies and other insects which attract their
attention. They have been observed to strike their prey with unerring
aim at distances of three or four feet. Another notable species
of shooting-fishes is the Chætodon. This latter form possesses a
prominent beak or muzzle, consisting of the elongated jaws; and from
this beak, as from the barrel of a rifle, the fish shoots its watery
missiles at the insects which alight on the vegetation fringing its
native waters.

The old saying which compares great helplessness to the state of a
“fish out of water” does not always find a corroborative re-echo
in natural history science. As every one knows, different fishes
exhibit very varying degrees of tenacity to life when removed from
their native element. Thus a herring dies almost immediately on
being taken out of water; while, on the other hand, the slippery
eels will bear removal from their habitat for twenty-four hours or
longer; and we have known of blennies--such as the shanny (Blennius
pholis)--surviving a long journey by post of some forty-eight hours’
duration, when packed amid some damp sea-weed in a box.

But certain fishes are known not merely to live when taken out of
water, but actually of themselves, and as part of their life and
habits, to voluntarily leave the water and disport themselves on
land. Of such abnormal fishes, the most famous is the climbing perch
or Anabas scandens of India, which inhabits the Ganges, and is also
found in other Asiatic ponds and rivers. These fishes may be seen to
leave the water and to make their way overland, supporting themselves
in their jerking gait by means of their strong spiny fins. They
appear to migrate from one pool to another in search of “pastures
new,” especially in the dry season, and when the water of their
habitats becomes shallow.

The Hindu name applied to these fishes means “climbers of trees”;
and although statements have been made both by travelers and natives
that the climbing perch has been found scaling the stems of trees,
these accounts, we fear, must be regarded as of equal value with the
native belief that the fishes fall in showers on the land from the
skies. Of the power of the fishes to live for five or six days out
of water, however, no doubt can be entertained; and their ability to
support life under these unwonted conditions is explained by the fact
that certain bones of the head are curiously contorted so as to form
a labyrinth, amid the delicate recesses of which a supply of water is
retained, for the purpose of keeping the gills moist.

Another group of fishes, also inhabiting India, and possessing powers
of existing “out of water,” is the Ophiocephalidæ (“snake-headed”);
a family allied to the Mullet group. It would appear, from some
observations on these fishes, that they are enabled not only to
live, like the climbing perch, out of water, but that they die if
kept below the surface of the water even for a comparatively short
time. Thus when an Ophiocephalus and a carp were placed together
in a vessel of water, a net being placed about two inches from the
surface, the carp swam, as might be expected, freely and continuously
below the surface, while the Ophiocephalus made vigorous efforts to
attain the surface, for the purpose of inhaling air directly from the
atmosphere. When not allowed to reach the surface, the Ophiocephali
died, suffocated, in periods varying from twenty minutes to two
hours. The explanation of the power possessed by the latter fish,
of being able to live out of water, resides in the fact that these
fishes possess two cavities in the throat, in which blood is purified
by the inhalation of atmospheric air. Thus the Ophiocephalus not only
can exist out of water, but escape from that medium must, in fact, be
viewed as an absolute necessity for the normal life of the animal.
The climbing perch appears also to exhibit this latter peculiarity of
requiring to escape periodically from the water, for this fish, like
the Ophiocephalus, may be actually drowned, if kept from obtaining a
supply of atmospheric air.

The curious Lepidosirens or mud-fishes, which occur in the Gambia of
Africa and the Amazon of South America, exhibit a greater peculiarity
of structure, which still more completely fits them for living out
of water. In the great majority of fishes, a curious sac or bag
known as the _swimming_ or _air bladder_ is found. The use of this
structure in ordinary fishes is to alter the specific gravity of the
animals; and, by the compression or expansion of the air or gases
it contains, to enable them to sink or rise in the water at will;
but it would also appear that indirectly it may aid in the breathing
of all fishes which possess the organ. In the mud-fishes, however,
the air-bladder becomes divided externally into two sacs, while
internally each sac exhibits a cellular structure resembling that
seen in the lungs of higher animals, with which structures, in fact,
the swimming-bladder of fishes actually corresponds. Then also this
elaborate air-bladder of the mud-fish communicates with the mouth
and throat by a tube, which corresponds to a windpipe. The nostrils
of the mud-fishes further open backward into the mouth; while, as
already mentioned, in all other fishes, save one genus, the nostrils
are simple, closed, pocket-like cavities. And it may lastly be noted
that the Lepidosirens are in addition provided with true gills, like
their ordinary and more commonplace neighbors.

These remarks serve to explain the “reason why” these fishes can
exist for months out of water. Thus, on the approach of the hot
season, the mud-fishes leave their watery homes and wriggle into the
soft mud of their native rivers. Here they burrow out a kind of nest,
coiling head and tail together; and as the mud dries and hardens,
the fishes remain in this temporary tomb; breathing throughout the
warm season like true land-dwellers, by means of the lung-like
air-bladder. When the wet season once more returns, the fishes are
aroused from their semi-torpid state by the early rains moistening
the surrounding clay; and when the pools and rivers once more attain
their wonted depth, the Lepidosirens emerge from their nests, seek
the water, breathe by means of their gills, and otherwise lead a true
aquatic existence. Another fish, the Ceratodus or “Barramunda” of
Australian rivers, possesses a similarly modified air-bladder, and is
thus enabled to breathe independently of its gills.

With such a combination of the characters of land and water animals,
it is little to be wondered at that the true position of the
mud-fishes and their neighbors in the zoological scale should have
formed a subject for much discussion. They appear, however, to be
true fishes, and not amphibians (or frog-like animals); and they
therefore may legally occupy a prominent position among the oddities
of their class.

Other curious beings included among the fishes are the so-called
globe-fishes (Diodon, etc.), which derive their name from their
power of distending their bodies with air at will; and their bodies
being usually provided with spines, they may be judged to present a
rather formidable front to any ordinary adversary in their expanded
condition. Then also we have the curious trigger-fishes (Balistes),
so named from the prominent pointed spine in front of the first
back-fin; this spine firmly holding its erect position until the
second spine or fin-ray be depressed, when the first spine is
released by mechanism resembling that of the trigger of a gun. The
obvious use of such an apparatus is clearly of a defensive kind; and
it is remarkable to find that man has imitated and reproduced, in one
of his common mechanical contrivances, a structure existing in all
its natural perfection in the fish.

Oddities in the way of curious fishes can receive no
better illustration than that afforded by the very curious
“telescope-fishes” of China. These beautiful little fishes are
kept alive in many of our large aquaria. At first sight the
telescope-fishes might be mistaken for the familiar gold-fishes,
but a cursory inspection of their appearance at once shows the
peculiarities of structure which have earned for these creatures
their distinctive name. The eyes are seen to be singularly prominent,
and protrude from the head to a marked extent, while they also
present certain alterations in intimate structure. The fins,
moreover, are double, this conformation being well exemplified in
the large and prominent tail-fin. The exact nature of these fishes
has been discussed by the French Academy of Sciences, in the records
of which it is stated that the Chinese have cultivated these fishes
from an ordinary species of the carp race, and that the peculiar
conformation of the eyes results from a diseased state, which, by
being transmitted from one generation to another, has become at last
a stable and definite character of the animals. This very probable
explanation of the origin of these peculiar eyes is supported by the
fact that certain carps inhabiting the canal Saint Martin at Paris
were found to possess prominent eyes; and a like appearance has been
observed in carps living in rivers into which the water of drains had
been allowed to flow.




  WONDERS OF THE SHORE
  --CHARLES KINGSLEY


See, on the shore, a shell bed, quite large, but comely enough to
please any eye. What a variety of colors and forms are there, amid
the purple and olive wreaths of wrack, and bladder-weed, and tangle
(ore-weed they call it in the south), and the delicate green ribbons
of the Zostera (the only English flowering plant which grows beneath
the sea). What are they all? What are the long, white razors? What
are the delicate green-gray cimeters? What are the tapering brown
spires? What the tufts of delicate yellow plants like squirrels’
tails and lobsters’ horns, and tamarisks, and fir-trees, and all
other finely cut animal and vegetable forms? What are the groups of
gray bladders, with something like a little bud at the tip? What are
the hundreds of little pink-striped pears? What those tiny babies’
heads covered with gray prickles instead of hair? The great red
star-fish, which the Ulster children call “the bad man’s hands”; and
the great whelks, which the youth of Musselburgh know as roaring
buckies, these we have seen before; but what, oh what, are the red
capsicums?

Yes, what are the red capsicums? and why are they poking, snapping,
starting, crawling, tumbling wildly over each other, rattling about
the huge mahogany cockles, as big as a child’s two fists, out of
which they are protruded? Mark them well, for you will perhaps never
see them again.

That red capsicum is the foot of the animal contained in the
cockle-shell. By its aid it crawls, leaps, and burrows in the sand,
where it lies drinking in the salt water through one of its siphons
and discharging it again through the other. Put the shell into a rock
pool, or a basin of water, and you will see the siphons clearly.
But I suppose your eyes will be rather attracted by that scarlet
and orange foot which is being drawn in and thrust out to a length
of nearly four inches, striking with its point against any opposing
object, and sending the whole shell backward with a jerk. The point,
you see, is sharp and tongue-like, only flattened, not horizontally,
like a tongue, but perpendicularly, so as to form, as it was
intended, a perfect sand-plow, by which the animal can move at will
either above or below the surface of the sand.

Enough of Cardium tuberculatum. Now for the other animals of the
heap; and first, for those long, white razors. They, as well as the
gray cimeters, are solens, razor-fish (Solen siliqua and S. ensis),
burrowers in the sand by that foot which protrudes from one end,
nimble in escaping from the Torquay boys, whom you will see boring
for them with a long iron screw on the sands at low tide. They are
very good to eat, these razor-fish; at least for those who so think
them; and abound in millions upon all our sandy shores.

Now for the tapering brown spires. They are Turritellæ, snail-like
animals (though the form of the shell is different), who crawl and
browze by thousands on the beds of Zostera, or grass wrack, which
you see thrown about on the beach, and which grows naturally in two
or three fathoms of water. Stay: here is one which is “more than
itself.” On its back is mounted a cluster of barnacles (Balanus
Porcatus), of the same family as those which stud the tide-rocks
in millions, scratching the legs of hapless bathers. Look at the
mouth of the shell; a long gray worm protrudes from it, which
is not the rightful inhabitant. He is dead long since, and his
place has been occupied by one Sipunculus Bernhardi, a wight of
low degree who connects “radiate” with annulate forms--in plain
English, sea-cucumbers with sea-worms. But however low in the scale
of comparative anatomy, he has wit enough to take care of himself;
mean, ugly, little worm as he seems. For, finding the mouth of the
Turritella too big for him, he has plastered it up with sand and mud
(Heaven alone knows how), just as a wry-neck plasters up a hole in
an apple tree when she intends to build therein, and has left only a
round hole, out of which he can poke his proboscis. A curious thing
is this proboscis, when seen through the magnifier. You perceive a
ring of tentacles round the mouth, for picking up I know not what;
and you will perceive, too, if you watch it, that when he draws it
in, he turns mouth, tentacles, and all inward, and so down into his
stomach, just as if you were to turn the finger of a glove inward
from the tip till it passed into the hand; and so performs, every
time he eats, the clown’s as yet ideal feat of jumping down his own
throat.

So much have we seen on one little shell. But there is more to see
close to it. Those yellow plants which I likened to squirrels’ tails
and lobsters’ horns, and what not, are zoophytes of different kinds.
Here is Sertularia argentea (true squirrel’s tail); here S. filicula,
as delicate as tangled threads of glass; here abietina; here rosacea.
The lobsters’ horns are Antennaria antennina; and mingled with them
are Plumulariæ, always to be distinguished from Sertulariæ by polypes
growing on one side of the branch, and not on both. Here is falcata,
with its roots twisted round a sea-weed. Here is cristata, on the
same weed; and here is a piece of the beautiful myriophyllum, which
has been battered in its long journey out of the deep water about the
ore rock. Here are Flustræ, or sea-mats. This, which smells very like
Verbena, is Flustra coriacea. That scurf on the frond of ore-weed
is F. lineata. The glass bells twined about this Sertularia are
Campanularia syringa; and here is a tiny plant of Cellularia ciliata.
Look at it through the field-glass; for it is truly wonderful. Each
polype cell is edged with whip-like spines, and on the back of some
of them is--what is it but a live vulture’s head, snapping and
snapping--what for?

Next, what are the striped pears? They are sea-anemones, Sagartia
viduata, the snake-locked anemone. They have been washed off the
loose stones to which they usually adhere by the pitiless roll of
the ground-swell; however, they are not so far gone but that if you
take one of them home and put it in a jar of water, it will expand
into a delicate compound flower, which can neither be described nor
painted, of long pellucid tentacles, hanging like a thin, bluish
cloud over a disk of mottled brown and gray. Here, adhering to this
large whelk, is another, but far larger and coarser. It is Sagartia
parasitica, one of our largest British species; and most singular in
this, that it is almost always (in Torbay at least) found adhering
to a whelk: but never to a live one; and for this reason. The live
whelk (as you may see for yourself when the tide is out) burrows
in the sand in chase of hapless bivalve shells, which he bores
through with his sharp tongue (always, cunning fellow, close to
the hinge where the fish is), and then sucks out their life. Now,
if the anemone stuck to him, it would be carried under the sand
daily, to its own disgust. It prefers, therefore, the dead whelk,
inhabited by a soldier crab, Pagurus Bernhardi, of which you may
find a dozen anywhere as the tide goes out; and travels about at the
crab’s expense, sharing with him the offal which is his food. Note,
moreover, that the soldier crab is the most hasty and blundering of
marine animals, as active as a monkey, and as subject to panics as a
horse; wherefore the poor anemone on his back must have a hard life
of it; being knocked about against rocks and shells, without warning,
from morn to night and night to morn. Against which danger, kind
Nature, ever _maximus in minimis_, has provided by fitting him with
a stout leather coat, which she has given, I believe, to no other of
his family.

Next for the babies’ heads, covered with prickles instead of hair.
They are sea urchins, Amphidotus cordatus, which burrow by thousands
in the sand. They are of that Spatangoid form which you will often
find fossil in the chalk, and which shepherd boys call snakes’ heads.
We shall soon find another sort, an Echinus, and have time to talk
over these most strange (in my eyes) of all living animals.

I must mention Synapta; or, as Montague called it, Chirodota--a much
better name, and, I think, very uselessly changed; for Chirodota
expresses the peculiarity of the beast, which consists in--start
not, reader--twelve hands, like human hands, while Synapta expresses
merely its power of clinging to the fingers, which it possesses
in common with many other animals. It is, at least, a beast worth
talking about; as for finding one, I fear that we have no chance of
such good fortune.

But what is it like? Conceive a very fat, short earth-worm; not
ringed, though, like the earth-worm, but smooth and glossy, dappled
with darker spots, especially on one side, which may be the upper
one. Put round its mouth twelve little arms, on each a hand with four
ragged fingers, and on the back of the hand a stump of a thumb, and
you have Synapta Digitata. These hands it puts down to its mouth,
generally in alternate pairs, but how it obtains its food by them is
yet a mystery, for its intestines are filled, like an earth-worm’s,
with the mud in which it lives, and from which it probably extracts
(as does the earth-worm) all organic matters.

You will find it stick to your fingers by the whole skin, causing, if
your hand be delicate, a tingling sensation; and if you will examine
the skin under the microscope, you will find the cause. The whole
skin is studded with minute glass anchors, some hanging freely from
the surface, but most imbedded in the skin. Each of these anchors is
joined at its root into one end of a curious cribriform plate--in
plain English one pierced like a sieve, which lies under the skin and
reminds one of the similar plates in the skin of the White Cucumaria,
which I will show you presently; and both of these we must regard as
the first rudiments of an Echinoderm’s outside skeleton, such as in
the sea-urchins covers the whole body of the animal. The animal, when
caught, has a strange habit of self-destruction, contracting its skin
at two or three different points, and writhing till it snaps itself
into “junks,” as the sailors would say, and then dies.

Every ledge of these flat New Red Sandstone rocks, if torn up with
the crowbar, discloses in its cracks and crannies nests of strange
forms which shun the light of day; beautiful Actiniæ fill the tiny
caverns with living flowers; great Pholades bore by hundreds in the
softer strata; and wherever a thin layer of muddy sand intervenes
between two slabs, long Annelid worms of quaintest forms and colors
have their horizontal burrows, among those of that curious and rare
radiate animal, the Spoonworm, an eyeless bag about an inch long,
half bluish gray, half pink, with a strange scalloped and wrinkled
proboscis of saffron color, which serves in some mysterious way,
soft as it is, to collect food and clear its dark passage through
the rock. See, at the extreme low-water mark, where the broad olive
fronds of the Laminariæ, like fan-palms, droop and wave gracefully
in the retiring ripples, a great bowlder which will serve our
purpose. Its upper side is a whole forest of sea-weeds, large and
small; and that forest, if you examined it closely, as full of
inhabitants as those of the Amazon or the Gambia. To “beat” that
dense cover would be an endless task; but on the under side, where no
sea-weeds grow, we shall find full in view enough to occupy us till
the tide returns.

Now the crowbar is well under it; heave, and with a will; and so,
after five minutes’ tugging, propping, slipping, and splashing, the
bowlder gradually tips over, and we rush greedily upon the spoil.

The first object which strikes the eye is probably a group of
milk-white slugs, from two to six inches long, cuddling snugly
together. You try to pull them off, and find that they give you some
trouble, such a firm hold have the delicate white sucking arms,
which fringe each of their five edges. You see at the head nothing
but a yellow dimple; for eating and breathing are suspended till the
return of tide; but once settled in a jar of salt water, each will
protrude a large chocolate-colored head, tipped with a ring of ten
feathery gills, looking very much like a head of “curled kale,” but
of the loveliest white and primrose; in the centre whereof lies perdu
a mouth with sturdy teeth--if, indeed, they, as well as the whole
inside of the beast, have not been lately got rid of, and what you
see be not a mere bag, without intestine or other organ: but only
for the time being. For hear it, worn-out epicures and old Indians
who bemoan your livers, this little Holothuria knows a secret which,
if he could tell it, you would be glad to buy of him for thousands
sterling. To him blue pill and muriatic acid are superfluous and
travels to Brunnen a waste of time. Happy Holothuria! who possesses
really the secret of everlasting youth, which ancient fable bestowed
on the serpent and the eagle. For when his teeth ache, or his
digestive organs trouble him, all he has to do is just to cast up
forthwith his entire inside, and _faisant maigre_ for a month or so,
grow a fresh set, and then eat away as merrily as ever. His name, if
you wish to consult so triumphant a hygeist, is Cucumaria Pentactes.

Now what are those bright little buds, like salmon-colored Banksia
roses half-expanded, sitting closely on the stone? Touch them; the
soft part is retracted, and the orange flower of flesh transformed
into a pale pink flower of stone. That is the Madrepore (Caryophyllia
Smithii); one of our south coast varieties: and see, on the lip of
the last one, which we have carefully scooped off with the chisel,
two little pink towers of stone, delicately striated; drop them into
this small bottle of sea-water, and from the top of each tower issues
every half second--what shall we call it?--a hand or a net of finest
hairs, clutching at something invisible to our grosser sense.

“Doubtless you are familiar with the stony skeleton of our Madrepore,
as it appears in museums. It consists of a number of thin calcareous
plates standing up edgewise, and arranged in a radiating manner
round a low centre.... This is but the skeleton; and though it is
a very pretty object, those who are acquainted with it alone can
form but a very poor idea of the beauty of the living animal.... Let
it, after being torn from the rock, recover its equanimity; then
you will see a pellucid gelatinous flesh emerging from between the
plates, and little exquisitely formed and colored tentacula, with
white clubbed tips fringing the sides of the cup-shaped cavity in the
centre, across which stretches the oval disk marked with a star of
some rich and brilliant color, surrounding the central mouth, a slit
with white crenated lips, like the orifice of one of those elegant
cowry shells which we put upon our mantel-pieces. The mouth is always
more or less prominent, and can be protruded and expanded to an
astonishing extent. The space surrounding the lips is commonly fawn
color, or rich chestnut-brown, the star or vandyked circle rich red,
pale vermilion, and sometimes the most brilliant emerald green, as
brilliant as the gorget of a humming-bird.”[4]

And what does this exquisitely delicate creature do with its pretty
mouth? Alas for fact! It sips no honey-dew, or fruits from paradise.
“I put a minute spider, as large as a pin’s head, into the water,
pushing it down to the coral. The instant it touched the tip of a
tentacle it adhered, and was drawn in with the surrounding tentacles
between the plates. With a lens I saw the small mouth slowly open
and move over to that side, the lips gaping unsymmetrically; while,
with a movement as imperceptible as that of the hour hand of a watch,
the tiny prey was carried along between the plates to the corner of
the mouth. The mouth, however, moved most, and at length reached
the edges of the plates, gradually closed upon the insect, and then
returned to its usual place in the centre.” (Gosse.) The fact is,
that the Madrepore, like those glorious sea-anemones whose living
flowers stud every pool, is by profession a scavenger and a feeder
on carrion; and being as useful as he is beautiful, really comes
under the rule which he seems at first to break, that handsome is who
handsome does.

Look now at these tiny saucers of the thinnest ivory, the largest not
bigger than a silver threepence, which contain in their centres a
milk-white crust of stone, pierced, as you see under the magnifier,
into a thousand cells, each with its living architect within. Here
are two kinds: in one the tabular cells radiate from the centre,
giving it the appearance of a tiny compound flower, daisy or
groundsel; in the other they are crossed with waving grooves, giving
the whole a peculiar fretted look, even more beautiful than that
of the former species. They are Tubulipora patina and Tubulipora
hispida; and stay--break off that tiny rough red wart, and look at
its cells also under the magnifier: it is Cellepora pumicosa; and
now, with the Madrepore, you hold in your hand the principal, at
least the commonest, British types of those famed coral insects which
in the tropics are the architects of continents and the conquerors of
the ocean surge.

There are a few other true cellepore corals round the coast. The
largest of all, Cervicornis, may be dredged a few miles outside on
the Exmouth bank, with a few more Tubulipores: but all tiny things,
the lingering and, as it were, expiring remnants of that great
coral-world which, through the abysmal depths of past ages, formed
here in Britain our limestone hills, storing up for generations yet
unborn the materials of agriculture and architecture. Inexpressibly
interesting, even solemn, to those who will think, is the sight of
those puny parasites which, as it were, connect the ages and the
eons: yet not so solemn and full of meaning as that tiny relic of
an older world, the little pear-shaped Turbinolia (cousin of the
Madrepores and Sea-anemones), found fossil in the Suffolk crag, and
yet still lingering here and there alive in the deep water of Scilly
and the west coast of Ireland, possessor of a pedigree which dates,
perhaps, from ages before the day in which it was said: “Let us make
man in our image, after our likeness.”

But we must make haste; for the tide is rising fast, and our stone
will be restored to its eleven hours’ bath long before we have talked
over half the wonders which it holds. Look, though, ere you retreat,
at one or two more.

What is that little brown thing whom you have just taken off the
rock to which he adhered so stoutly by his sucking-foot? A limpet?
Not at all: he is of quite a different family and structure; but
on the whole, a limpet-like shell would suit him well enough, so
he had one given him: nevertheless, owing to certain anatomical
peculiarities, he needed one aperture more than a limpet; so one,
if you will examine, has been given him at the top of his shell
(Fissurella græca). This is one instance among a thousand of the way
in which a scientific knowledge of objects must not obey, but run
counter to, the impressions of sense; and of a custom in nature which
makes this caution so necessary, namely, the repetition of the same
form, slightly modified, in totally different animals, sometimes as
if to avoid waste (for why should not the same conception be used in
two different cases, if it will suit in both?) and sometimes (more
marvelous by far) when an organ, fully developed and useful in one
species, appears in a cognate species but feeble, useless, and, as it
were, abortive; and gradually, in species still further removed, dies
out altogether; placed there it would seem at first sight merely to
keep up the family likeness. I am half jesting; that can not be the
only reason, perhaps not the reason at all; but the fact is one of
the most curious, and notorious also, in comparative anatomy.

Look, again, at those sea-slugs. One, some three inches long, of a
bright lemon-yellow, clouded with purple; another of a dingy gray
(Doris tuberculata and bilineata); another exquisite little creature
of a pearly French white, furred all over the back with what seem
arms, but are really gills, of ringed white and gray and black (Eolis
papilosa). Put that yellow one into water, and from his head, above
the eyes, arise two serrated horns, while from the after part of his
back springs a circular Prince-of-Wales’s-feather of gills--they
are exactly like those which we saw just now in the white Cucumaria.
Yes; here is another instance of the same custom of repetition. The
Cucumaria is a low radiate animal--the sea-slug a far higher mollusk;
and every organ within him is formed on a different type; as, indeed,
are those seemingly identical gills, if you come to examine them
under the microscope, having to oxygenate fluids of a very different
and complicated kind; and, moreover, the Cucumaria’s gills were put
round his mouth, the Doris’s feathers round the other extremity;
that gray Eolis’s again, are simple clubs, scattered over his whole
back, and in each of his nudibranch congeners these same gills take
some new and fantastic form; in Melibæa those clubs are covered with
warts; in Scyllæa, with tufted bouquets; in the beautiful Antiopa
they are transparent bags; and in many other English species they
take every conceivable form of leaf, tree, flower, and branch,
bedecked with every color of the rainbow, as you may see them
depicted in Messrs. Alder and Hancock’s unrivaled _Monograph on the
Nudibranch Mollusca_.

One sight more, and we have done. I had something to say, had time
permitted, on the ludicrous element which appears here and there in
nature. There are animals, like monkeys and crabs, which seem made to
be laughed at; by those at least who possess that most indefinable
of faculties, the sense of the ridiculous. But, in the meanwhile,
there are animals in which results so strange, fantastic, even
seemingly horrible, are produced, that fallen man may be pardoned
if he shrinks from them in disgust. At all events, whether we were
intruding or not, in turning this stone, we must pay a fine for
having done so; for there lies an animal as foul and monstrous to
the eye as “hydra, gorgon, or chimæra dire,” and yet so wondrously
fitted to its work that we must needs endure for our own instruction
to handle and to look at it. Its name, if you wish for it, is
Nemertes; probably N. Borlasii, a worm of very “low” organization,
though well fitted enough for its own work. You see it? That black,
shiny, knotted lump among the gravel, small enough to be taken up
in a dessert spoon. Look now, as it is raised and its coils drawn
out. Three feet--six--nine, at least: with a capability of seemingly
endless expansion; a slimy tape of living caoutchouc, some eighth of
an inch in diameter, a dark, chocolate black, with paler longitudinal
lines. Is it alive? It hangs, helpless and motionless, a mere velvet
string across the hand. Ask the neighboring Annelids and the fry of
the rock-fishes, or put it into a vase at home, and see. It lies
motionless, trailing itself among the gravel; you can not tell where
it begins or ends; it may be a dead strip of sea-weed, Himanthalia
lorea, perhaps, or Chorda filum, or even a tarred string. So thinks
the little fish who plays over and over it, till he touches at
last what is too surely a head. In an instant a bell-shaped sucker
mouth has fastened to his side. In another instant, from one lip,
a concave double proboscis, just like a tapir’s (another instance
of the repetition of forms), has clasped him like a finger; and
now begins the struggle: but in vain. He is being “played” with
such a fishing-line as the skill of a Wilson or a Stoddart never
could invent; a living line, with elasticity beyond that of the
most delicate fly rod, which follows every lunge, shortening and
lengthening, slipping and twining round every piece of gravel and
stem of sea-weed, with a tiring drag such as no Highland wrist or
step could ever bring to bear on salmon or on trout. The victim is
tired now; and slowly, and yet dexterously, his blind assailant is
feeling and shifting along his side, till he reaches one end of him;
and then the black lips expand, and slowly and surely the curved
finger begins packing him end foremost into the gullet, where he
sinks, inch by inch, till the swelling which marks his place is lost
among the coils, and he is probably mascerated to a pulp long before
he has reached the opposite extremity of his cave of doom. Once safe
down, the black murderer slowly contracts again into a knotted heap,
and lies, like a boa with a stag inside him, motionless and blessed.

There; we must come away now, for the tide is over our ankles; but
touch, before you go, one of those little red mouths which peep out
of the stone. A tiny jet of water shoots up almost into your face.
The bivalve (Saxicava rugosa), who has burrowed into the limestone
knot (the softest part of the stone to his jaws, though the hardest
to your chisel), is scandalized at having the soft mouths of his
siphons so rudely touched, and taking your finger for some bothering
Annelid, who wants to nibble him, is defending himself; shooting you,
as naturalists do humming-birds, with water. Let him rest in peace;
it will cost you ten minutes’ hard work and much dirt to extract him;
but if you are fond of shells, secure one or two of those beautiful
pink and straw-colored scallops (Hinnites pusio) who have gradually
incorporated the layers of their lower valve with the roughness
of the stone, destroying thereby the beautiful form which belongs
to their race, but not their delicate color. There are a few more
bivalves, too, adhering to the stone, and those rare ones, and two or
three delicate Mangeliæ and Nassæ are trailing their graceful spires
up and down in search of food. That little bright red and yellow
pea, too, touch it--the brilliant colored cloak is withdrawn, and,
instead, you have a beautiful ribbed pink cowry (Cypræa Europæa),
the only European representative of that grand tropical family. Cast
one wondering glance, too, at the forest of zoophytes and corals,
Lepraliæ and Flustræ, and those quaint blue stars, set in brown
jelly, which are no zoophytes, but respectable mollusks, each with
his well-formed mouth and intestines (Botrylli), but combined in a
peculiar form of communism, of which all one can say is that one
hopes they like it.

From the bare rocks above high-water mark, down to abysses deeper
than ever plummet sounded, is life, everywhere life; fauna after
fauna, and flora after flora, arranged in zones, according to the
amount of light and warmth which each species requires, and to the
amount of pressure which they are able to endure. The crevices of
the highest rocks, only sprinkled with salt-spray in spring-tides
and high gales, have their peculiar little univalves, their crisp
lichen-like sea-weed, in myriads; lower down, the region of the Fuci
(bladder-weeds) has its own tribes of periwinkles and limpets; below
again, about the neap-tide mark, the region of the Corallines and
Algæ furnishes food for yet other species who graze on its watery
meadows; and beneath all, only uncovered at low spring-tide, the zone
of the Laminariæ (the great tangles and ore-weeds) is most full of
all of every imaginable form of life.




  CRABS, PRAWNS, AND LOBSTERS
  --PHILIP HENRY GOSSE


If you look at the head of a crab, a lobster, or a prawn, you will
see that it is furnished with jointed antennæ, like that of insects;
but whereas in insects there is never more than a single pair, in
the creatures of which I am speaking there are two pairs. In the
prawn you may suppose, at first sight, that there are four pairs;
but that is because the internal antennæ terminate each in three
many-jointed bristles, in structure and appearance exactly like the
bristles of the outer pair, two of the three being nearly as long as
the outer, while the third is short. In the lobster, the internal are
two-bristled, both bristles rather short, while the external are very
long. In the flat-crabs each pair is simple, the inner minute, the
outer long. In the great eatable crab each pair is very small, and
they are dissimilar.

[Illustration: Two Strange Zoophytes

1, _Holtenia Carpenteri_, a species of glass sponge; 2, _Pentacrinus
Asteria_, the only survivor of the Crinoid family]

Now taking the last-named animal as the representative of his class,
let us examine one of his inner antennæ first. It consists of a
jointed stem and a terminating bristle; the latter furnished with
small hairs common to the general surface of the body, and with long,
delicate, membraneous filaments (_setæ_), often improperly called
_cilia_, which are larger and much more delicate in structure than
the ordinary hairs.

The basal joint is greatly enlarged: if it be carefully removed from
its connection with the head, and broken open, it will be found to
inclose in its cavity a still smaller chamber, with calcareous walls
of a much more delicate character than the outer walls. This internal
shell is considered by Mr. Spence Bate to be a _cochlea_, from its
analogy, both in structure and supposed use, to the organ so named in
the internal ear of man and other vertebrate animals. It is situated,
as has been said, in the cavity of the basal joint of the internal
antennæ, and is attached to the interior surface of its wall furthest
from the median line of the crab. It has a tendency to a spiral form,
but does not pass beyond the limits of a single convolution.

If this interior cell does indeed represent the _cochlea_ of more
highly constructed ears--to which it bears some resemblance, both in
form and structure--then it seems to identify, beyond dispute, these
inner or upper antennæ as the organs of hearing.

Now with this conclusion agrees well the manner in which the living
animal makes use of the organs in question. The crab always carries
them erect and elevated; and is incessantly striking the water with
them, with a very peculiar jerking action, now and then vibrating,
and, as it has been called, “twiddling” them. These antennæ,
therefore, appear to be always on the watch: let the animal be at
rest, let it be feeding, no matter, the superior antennæ are ever
elevated and on constant guard.

The lengthened and delicate setæ with which they are furnished are,
moreover, peculiarly adapted to receive and convey the most minute
vibratory sensations from the medium in which they are suspended;
and, on the whole, it seems to be satisfactorily settled by Mr.
Spence Bate (to whose excellent memoir I am indebted for these
explanatory details) that the inner antennæ are real _ears_.

Having thus taken our crab by the ears, we will endeavor next to
tweak his nose. But stay, we must find it first. We turn our horny
gentleman up, and in his flat ancient face we certainly discern
little sign of a nasal organ. Our friend Mr. Bate must assist us
again. He will tell us to look at the outer or lower antennæ. We will
look accordingly, magnifier in hand, while he makes it clear to us
that these are a pair of noses.

Each of these organs is formed of a stem consisting in general of
five joints, and a filament of many minute joints. In the prawn
and the lobster all the five joints of the stem are distinct; but
in the crab the whole are, as it were, soldered together into a
compact mass, with difficulty distinguishable into their constituent
articulations; while in some species their position can be indicated
only by the presence of the olfactory operculum.

This important little organ varies in its construction in the
different families of Crustacea. In the crab it is a small movable
appendage, situated at the point of junction between the second
and third joints; it is attached to a long, calcareous, lever-like
tendon, at the extreme limit of which is placed a set of muscles,
by which it is opened and closed; to assist in which operation, at
the angle of the operculum most distant from the central line of the
animal are fixed two small hinges. When the operculum is raised, the
internal surface is found to be perforated by a circular opening
protected by a thin membrane.

In the prawn, shrimp, and lobster, there is no operculum, but only
the orifice covered by a membrane, which is placed at the extremity
of a small protuberance, and it is not capable of being withdrawn
into the cavity of the antennæ, as in the crab.

In the latter animal, the little door, when it is raised, exposes
the orifice in a direction pointing to the mouth; and where there
is no door, still the direction of the opening is the same, inward
and forward, answering to the position of the nostrils in the higher
animals. In each case it is so situated that it is impossible for any
food to be conveyed into the mouth without passing under this organ;
and there most conveniently the animal is enabled to judge of the
suitability of any substance for food, by raising the little door,
and applying to the matter to be tested the sensitive membrane of the
internal orifice.

Thus it is concluded that this lower or outer pair of antennæ are
the proper organs of smell, as the upper and inner are of hearing.

The eyes, though constructed on the same general principles as those
of insects, yet present some particulars worthy of your notice. In
the crabs and lobsters they consist of numerous facets, behind each
of which is a conical or prismatic lens, the round extremity of which
is fitted into a transparent conical pit, corresponding to a vitreous
body, while the conical extremity of these lenses is received into
a kind of cup, formed by the filaments of the optic nerve. Each of
these filaments, together with its cup, is surrounded by pigment
matter in a sheath-like manner. To see this structure would require
anatomical skill; but you may here examine with a low power portions
of the cornea, or glassy exterior, of the eye of a crab and of a
lobster. In the former, you see that the facets into which the cornea
is divided are hexagonal, like those of most insects, but in the
latter they are square.

But Crustacea have a far greater faculty of circumspection than
insects have; for besides the extensive convexity and numerous facets
of their eyes, these organs are placed at the extremity of shelly
foot-stalks, which are themselves movable on hinges, capable of being
projected at pleasure, of being moved in different directions, and of
being packed snugly away, when not in active use, in certain grooves
hollowed out expressly for them in the front margin of the shell.




  REPTILES
  --PETER MARK ROGET


The order of Batrachia, or Amphibious Reptiles, constitutes the first
step in the transition from aquatic to terrestrial vertebrata. It
is more particularly the function of respiration that requires to
be modified, in consequence of the change of element in which the
animal is to reside; and as if it had been necessary, conformably
to the laws of animal creation, that this change should not be
abruptly made, we find that Batrachian reptiles, with which this
series commences, are constructed, at first, on the model of fishes;
breathing the atmospheric air contained in the water by means of
gills, and moving through the fluid by the same instruments of
progression as fishes, which, indeed, they exactly resemble in
every part of their mechanical conformation. The tadpole, which is
the young of the frog, is, at first, not distinguishable in any
circumstance of its internal skeleton, or in the disposition of
its vital organs, from the class of fishes. The head, indeed, is
enlarged, but the body immediately tapers to form a lengthened tail,
by the prolongation of the spinal column, which presents a numerous
series of coccygeal vertebræ, furnished with a vertical expansion of
membrane to serve as a caudal fin, and with appropriate muscles for
executing all the motions required in swimming.

Yet, with all this apparent conformity to the structure of a strictly
aquatic animal, the tadpole contains within its organization the
germs of a higher development. Preparations are silently making
for a change of habitation, for the animal’s emerging from the
waters, for the reception of atmospheric air into new cavities, for
the acquisition of limbs suited to new modes of progression; in a
word, for a terrestrial life, and for all the attributes and powers
which belong to quadrupeds. The succession of forms, which these
metamorphoses present, are in themselves exceedingly curious, and
bear a remarkable analogy with the progress of the transformations
of those insects, which in the first stages of their existence are
aquatic. To this philosophic inquirer into the marvelous plans of
creation, the series of changes which mark these singular transitions
can not fail to be deeply interesting; and occurring, as we here find
them, among a tribe of animals allied to the more perfect forms of
organization, they afford us a better opportunity of exploring the
secrets of their development by tracing them from the earlier stages
of this complicated process, so full of mystery and of wonder.

The egg of the frog is a round mass of transparent nutritive jelly,
in the centre of which appears a small black globule. By degrees
this shapeless globule exhibits the appearance of a head and tail,
and in this form it emerges from its prison, and moves briskly in
the water. From the sides of the neck there grow out feathery tufts,
which float loosely, and without protection, in the surrounding
fluid. These, however, are mere temporary organs, for they serve
the purposes of respiration only until the proper gills are formed,
and they then shrink and become obliterated. The true gills, or
_branchiæ_, are contained within the body, and are four in number on
each side, constructed on a plan very similar to those of fishes.
Retaining this aquatic constitution, the tadpole rapidly increases
in size and in activity for several weeks. In the meantime the
legs, of which no trace was at first apparent, have commenced their
growth. The hindlegs are the first to make their appearance, showing
their embryo forms within the transparent coverings of the hinder
part of the trunk, just at the origin of the tail. These are soon
succeeded by the forelegs, which exactly follow the hindlegs in all
the stages of their development, until they have acquired their due
proportion to the size of the trunk. The animal at this period wears
a very ambiguous appearance, partaking of the forms both of the
frog and of the lizard, and swimming both by the inflexions of the
tail and the irregular impulses given by the feet. This interval is
also employed by this amphibious being in acquiring the faculty of
respiring atmospheric air. We observe it rising every now and then to
the surface, and cultivating its acquaintance with that element, into
which it is soon to be raised; occasionally taking in a mouthful of
air, which is received into its newly developed lungs, and afterward
discharging it in the form of a small bubble. When the necessary
internal changes are at length completed, preparations are made for
getting rid of the tail, which is now a useless member, and which,
ceasing to be nourished, diminishes by degrees, leaving only a short
stump, which is soon removed. The gills are by this time shrunk,
and rapidly disappear, their function being superseded by the lungs,
which have been called into play; and the animal now emerges from the
water and begins a new mode of existence, having become a perfect
frog. It still, however, retains its aquatic habits, and swims with
great ease in the water by means of its hindfeet, which are very long
and muscular, and of which the toes are furnished with a broad web,
derived from a thin extension of the integuments.

No less curious are the changes which take place in all the other
organs for the purpose of effecting the transformations rendered
necessary by this entire alteration in all the external circumstances
of that animal--this total reversal of its wants, of its habits, of
its functions, and of its very constitution.

There are five toes in the foot, with sometimes the rudiment of a
sixth: the anterior extremity has only four toes, which are without
claws.

The necessity of employing the same instruments for progression in
the water and on land is probably the cause which prevents their
having the form best adapted for either function. The hindfeet of
the frog, being well constructed for striking the water backward
in swimming, are, in consequence, less capable of exerting a force
sufficient to raise and support the weight of the body in walking:
and this animal accordingly is exceedingly awkward in its attempt to
walk. On a short level plane it can proceed only by leaps; an action
which the length and great muscularity of the hindlegs particularly
fit them for performing. The toad, on the other hand, whose hindlegs
are short and feeble, walks better, but does not jump or swim so well
as the frog.[5] The Hyla, or tree-frog, has the extremities of each
of its toes expanded into a fleshy tubercle, approaching in the form
of its concave surface to that of a sucker, and by the aid of which
it fastens itself readily to the branches of trees, which it chiefly
inhabits, and along which it runs with great agility.

The salamander is an animal of the same class as the frog, undergoing
the same metamorphoses from the tadpole state. It differs much,
however, in respect to the development of particular parts of the
skeleton. The anterior extremities of the salamander make their
appearance earlier than the hindlegs, and the tail remains as a
permanent part of the structure. The land salamanders have a rounded
tail, but the aquatic species, or Tritons, have it compressed
vertically; thus retaining the fish-like form of the tadpole, and the
same radiated disposition of the muscles.

In the class of serpents we see exemplified the greatest possible
state of simplicity to which a vertebrated skeleton can be reduced;
for it consists merely of a lengthened spinal column, with a head
but little developed, and a series of ribs; but apparently destitute
of limbs, and of the bones which usually connect those limbs with
the trunk. In the conformation of the skull and bones of the face,
they present strong analogies with Batrachian reptiles, and also
with fishes, one tribe of which, namely, the apodous or anguilliform
fishes, they greatly resemble by the length and flexibility of the
spine. These peculiarities of conformation may be in a great measure
traced to the mode of life for which they are destined. The food
assigned to them is living prey, which they must attack and vanquish
before they can convert it into nourishment. The usual mode in which
the boa seizes and destroys its victims is by coiling the hinder
part of its body round the trunk or branch of a tree, keeping the
head and anterior half of the body disengaged; and then, by a sudden
spring, fasten upon the defenceless object of its attack, and twining
round its body so as to compress its chest and put a stop to its
respiration. Venomous serpents, on the other hand, coil themselves
into the smallest possible space, and suddenly darting upon the
unsuspecting or fascinated straggler, inflict the quickly fatal
wound.[6]

It is evident, from these considerations, that, in the absence of all
external instruments of prehension and of progressive motion, it is
necessary that the spine should be rendered extremely flexible, so as
to adapt itself to a great variety of movements. This extraordinary
flexibility is given, first, by the sub-division of the spinal column
into a great number of small pieces; secondly, by the great freedom
of their articulations; and thirdly, by the peculiar mobility and
connections of the ribs.

Numerous as are the vertebræ of the eel, the spine of which consists
of above a hundred, that of serpents is in general formed of a still
greater number. In the rattlesnake (Crotalus horridus) there are
about two hundred; and above three hundred have been counted in the
spine of the Coluber natrix. These vertebræ are all united by ball
and socket joints, as in the adult batrachia; the posterior rounded
eminence of each vertebra being received into the anterior surface of
the next.

While provision has thus been made for extent of motion,
extraordinary care has at the same time been bestowed upon the
security of the joints. Thus, we find them effectually protected from
dislocation by the locking in, above and below, of the articular
processes, and by the close investment of the capsular ligaments.
The direction of the surfaces of these processes, and the shape
and length of the spinous processes, are such as to allow of free
lateral flexion, but to limit the vertical and longitudinal motions:
and whatever degree of freedom of motion may exist between the
adjoining vertebræ, that motion being multiplied along the column,
the flexibility of the whole becomes very great, and admits of its
assuming every degree and variety of curvature.

The mode in which the boa exerts a powerful pressure on the bodies
of the animals it has seized, and which it has encircled within
its folds, required the ribs to be movable laterally, as well as
backward, in order to elude the force thus exerted. The broad convex
surfaces on which they play give them, in this respect, an advantage
which the ordinary mode of articulation would not have afforded. The
spinous processes in this tribe of serpents are short and widely
separated, so as to allow of flexion in every direction. In the
rattlesnake, on the other hand, their length and oblique position are
such as to limit the upward bending of the spinal column, although,
in other respects, its motion is not restricted. The vertebræ at the
end of the tail are furnished with broad transverse processes for the
attachment of the first joints of the rattle.

But of whatever variety of flexions we may suppose the lengthened
body of a serpent to be capable, it will, at first view, be difficult
to conceive how these simple actions can be rendered subservient
to the purposes of progression on land: and yet experience teaches
us that few animals advance with more celerity on the surface of
the ground, or dart upon their prey with greater promptitude and
precision. They raise themselves without difficulty to the tops of
the highest trees, and escape to their hiding-places with a quickness
which eludes observation and baffles the efforts of their pursuers.

The solution of this enigma is to be sought for partly in the
structure of the skin, which, in almost every species, is covered
with numerous scales: and partly in the peculiar conformation of
the ribs. The edges of the scales form rough projections, which are
directed backward, so as to catch the surfaces of the bodies to which
they are applied, and to prevent any retrograde motion. In some
species, the integument is formed into annular plates, reminding us
of the structures so prevalent among worms and myriapode animals.
Each scale is connected with a particular set of muscular fibres,
capable of raising or depressing it, so that, in this way, it is
converted into a kind of toe; and thus the body rests upon the ground
by numerous fixed points of support.

This support is further strengthened by the connection of the ribs
with the abdominal _scuta_, or the scales on the under side of the
body. The mode in which the ribs become auxiliary instruments of
progressive motion was first noticed by Sir Joseph Banks. While he
was watching the movements of a Coluber of unusual size which was
exhibited in London, and was moving briskly along the carpet, he
thought he saw the ribs come forward in succession, like the feet of
a caterpillar. Sir Everard Home, to whom Sir Joseph Banks pointed
out this circumstance, verified the fact by applying his hand below
the serpent, and he then distinctly felt the ends of the ribs moving
upon the palm, as the animal passed over it. The mode in which the
ribs are articulated with the spine is peculiar, and has evidently
been employed with reference to this particular function of the ribs,
which here stand in place of the anterior and posterior extremities,
possessed by most vertebrated animals, and characterizing the type
of their osseous fabric. In the ordinary structure, the head of
each rib has a convex surface, that plays either on the body of a
single vertebra with which it is connected, or upon the two bodies
of adjacent vertebræ: but in serpents the extremity of the head of
the rib has two slightly concave articular surfaces, which play on
a convex protuberance of the vertebra. This structure is attended
with the advantage of preventing the ribs from interfering with the
motions of the vertebræ upon one another. At their lower ends the
ribs of one side have no connection with those of the other, nor are
they joined to any bone analogous to a sternum: for, except in the
Ophiosaurus and the blind-worm (Anguis fragilis), there is no vestige
either of a sternum or scapula, in any animal of this class. Each rib
terminates in a slender cartilage, tapering to a point, which rests,
for its whole length, upon the upper surface of one of the scuta,
or broad scales on the lower side of the body. These scuta, which
are thus connected with the ends of the ribs, and which are moved
by means of short muscles, may be compared to hoofs, while the ribs
themselves may be considered as performing the office of legs. The
ribs move in pairs; and the scutum under each pair, being carried
along with it in all its motions, and laying hold of the ground by
its projecting edge, becomes a fixed point for the advance of the
body. This motion, Sir E. Home observes, is beautifully seen when a
snake is climbing over an angle to get upon a flat surface. When the
animal is moving on a plane, it alters its shape from a circular
or oval form, to one that approaches to a triangle, of which the
surface applied to the ground forms the base. Five sets of muscles
are provided for the purpose of giving to the ribs the motions
backward and forward, by which, as levers, they effect this species
of progression. These muscles are disposed in regular layers; some
passing over one or two ribs to be attached to the succeeding rib.
In all snakes the ribs are continued backward much beyond the region
occupied by the lungs; and although the anterior set are subservient
to respiration, as well as to progressive motion, it is evident that
all those posterior to the lungs must be employed solely for the
latter of these purposes.

It is easy to understand how the serpent can slowly advance, by this
creeping, or vermicular motion, consisting in reality of a succession
of very short steps. But its progress is accelerated by the
curvatures into which it throws its body; the fore part being fixed,
and the hind part brought near to it; then, by a reverse process,
the hind part is fixed, and the head projected forward. By an
alternation of these movements, assisted by the actions of the ribs,
the serpent is enabled to glide onward with considerable rapidity,
and without attracting observation. But where greater expedition is
necessary, they employ a more hurried kind of pace, although one
which exposes them more to immediate view. The body, instead of being
bent from side to side, is raised in one great arch, of which the
two extremities alone touch the ground; and these being alternately
employed as points of support, are made successively to approach and
to separate from each other, the body being propelled by bringing it
from a curved to a straight line.

There is yet a third kind of motion, which serpents occasionally
resort to, when springing upon their prey, or when desirous of making
a sudden escape from danger. They coil themselves into a spiral,
by contracting all the muscles on one side of the body, and then,
suddenly throwing into violent action all the muscles on the opposite
side, the whole body is propelled, as if by the release and unwinding
of a powerful spring, with an impulse which raises it to some height
from the ground, and projects it to a considerable distance.

Thus these animals, to which nature has denied all external
members, are yet capable, by the substitution of a different kind
of mechanism, still constructed from the elements belonging to the
primitive type of vertebrated animals, of silently gliding along
the surface of the earth, of creeping up trees, of striding rapidly
across the plain, and of executing leaps with a vigor and agility
which astonish the beholder, and which, in ages of ignorance and
superstition, were easily ascribed to supernatural agency.

The conformation of those parts of the frame which are subservient
to progressive motion becomes more perfect in the class of Saurian
reptiles, which includes all the lizard tribes. Several links of
connection with the preceding class may still be noticed, marking
the progress of development, as we follow the ascending series of
animals. Rudiments of the bones of the extremities, and, also, of
the sternum, make their appearance very visibly in the Ophiosaurus,
and in the blind-worm (Anguis fragilis). The Siren lacertina has
two diminutive forefeet, placed close to the head. The Lacerta
lumbricoides of Linnæus, or the Bipes canaliculatus of Lacépède,
which is found in Mexico, and of which a specimen is preserved in the
collection at Paris, has a pair of very short feet, also placed near
the head, and divided into four toes, with the rudiment of a fifth.
The Lacerta bipes (Linn.), or Sheltopusic of Pallas, has, on the
other hand, a pair of hindfeet only, but extremely small, together
with rudiments of a scapula and clavicle concealed under the skin.
Next in order must be placed the Chalcides, or snake-lizard, and the
Lacerta seps, animals frequently met with in the south of France, and
which have four minute feet, totally inefficient for the support of
the body, and only remotely useful in contributing to its progressive
undulations.

Ascending from these, we may form a series of reptiles, in which
the development of the limbs becomes more and more extended, till
we arrive at crocodiles, in which they attain a considerable degree
of perfection. As a consequence of this greater development of the
skeleton, we find the trunk divisible into separate regions. We now,
for the first time, meet with a distinct neck, separating the head
from the thorax, which is itself distinguishable from the abdomen;
and a distinct sacrum is interposed between the lumbar and the caudal
vertebræ.

The number of ribs differs in different species of Sauria: they are
always articulated to the extremities of the transverse processes of
the vertebræ, of which they appear to be continuations. Processes of
this description also occur in the neck, attached to the transverse
processes of the cervical vertebræ; and these have been regarded as
_cervical ribs_. Their presence are impediments to the flexions of
the neck; whence arises the difficulty which the crocodile appears to
have in bending the neck, while turning round upon the animal he is
pursuing. In the thorax, the ribs are connected with a broad sternum;
but there are other ribs, both before and behind, which have no such
termination, and therefore bear the name of _false ribs_.

The toes are usually provided with membranes spread between them,
to assist in swimming. The form of the tail, which is generally
compressed vertically, like that of fishes, though perhaps not to
an equal degree, is another indication of their being formed for an
aquatic life: for where the tail has this shape, we always find that
the chief muscular power is bestowed upon it as an instrument of
aquatic progression, producing, by its lateral flexions, a horizontal
movement of the body. Crocodiles and alligators, for instance, which
have this conformation, are comparatively weak when on land, and as
soon as they have seized their prey their efforts are always directed
to drag it with them into the water; knowing that when in their own
element they can readily master its struggles, and dispose of it as
they please.

In the Gecko tribe we find a particular mechanism provided for
effecting the adhesion of the feet to the objects to which they
are applied. It is somewhat analogous to that employed in the case
of the house-fly, already mentioned. Each foot has five toes; all,
except the thumb, terminated by a sharp curved claw. On the under
surface of each toe there are as many as sixteen transverse slits,
leading to the same number of cavities, or sacs; these open forward,
and their external edge is serrated, appearing like the teeth of a
small-toothed comb. All these parts, together with the cavities, are
covered or lined with cuticle. Below them are large muscles which
draw down the claw; and from the tendons of these muscles arise two
sets of smaller muscles, situated so as to be put upon the stretch,
when the former are in action. By the contractions of these muscles
the orifices of the cavities, or sacs to which they belong, are
opened, and the serrated edges applied accurately to the surfaces
with which the feet are in contact. Sir Everard Home, in his account
of this structure, compares it to the sucking disk of the Remora. By
its means the animal is enabled to walk securely upon the smoothest
surfaces, even in opposition to the tendency of gravity. It can run
very quickly along the walls or ceiling of a building, in situations
where it can not be supported by the feet, but must depend altogether
upon the suspension derived from a succession of rapid and momentary
adhesions.

Although the Sauria are better formed for progressive motion than
any of the other orders of reptiles, yet the greater shortness and
oblique position of their limbs, compared with those of mammiferous
quadrupeds, obliges them in general to rest the weight of the trunk
of the body on the ground, when they are not actually moving. None
of these reptiles has any other kind of pace than that of walking or
jumping; being incapable of performing either a trot or a gallop, in
consequence of the obliquity of the plane in which their limbs move.
The chameleon walks with great slowness and apparent difficulty; and
we have seen that, in consequence of the structure of the bones of
its neck, the crocodile, though capable of swift motion in a straight
line, is unable to turn itself round quickly. The general type of
these reptiles, having reference to an amphibious life, has not
attained that exclusive adaptation to a terrestrial existence which
we find in the higher orders of the Mammalia.

The order of Chelonian Reptiles, which comprises all the tribes of
tortoises and turtles, appears to constitute an exception to the
general laws of conformation which prevail among vertebrated animals:
for instead of presenting a skeleton wholly internal, the trunk of
the body is found to be inclosed on every side in a bony case, which
leaves openings only for the head, the tail, and the fore and hind
extremities. That portion of this osseous expansion which covers
the back is termed the Carapace; and the flat plate which defends
the lower part of the body is termed the Plastron. It is a form of
structure that reminds us of the defence provided for animals very
low in the scale of organization, such as the echinus, the crustacea,
and the bivalve mollusca. Yet the substance which forms these
strong bucklers, both above and below, is a real osseous structure,
developed in the same manner as other bones, subject to all the
changes and having all the properties of these structures. The great
purpose which Nature seems to have had in view in the formation of
the Chelonia is security; and for the attainment of this object she
has constructed a vaulted and impenetrable roof, capable of resisting
enormous pressures from without, and proof against any ordinary
measures of assault. It is to the animal a strong castle, into which
he can retire on the least alarm, and defy the efforts of his enemies
to dislodge or annoy him.

These considerations supply us with a key to many of those apparent
anomalies which can not fail to strike us in viewing the dispositions
of the parts of the skeleton and the remarkable inversion they appear
to have undergone, when compared with the usual arrangement. We
find, however, on a more attentive examination, that all the bones
composing the skeleton in other vertebrated animals exist also in
the tortoise; and that the bony case which envelops all the other
parts is really formed by an extension of the spinous processes of
the vertebræ and ribs on the one side and of the usual pieces which
compose the sternum on the other. The upper and lower plates thus
formed are united at their edges by expansions of the sternocostal
appendices, which become ossified. Thus, no new element has been
created; but advantage has been taken of those already existing in
the general type of the vertebrata, to modify their forms by giving
them different degrees of relative development, and converting them,
by these transformations, into a mechanism of a very different kind,
and subservient to other objects than those to which they are usually
applied. It is scarcely possible to have stronger proofs, if such
were wanting, of the unity of plan which has regulated the formation
of all animal structures than those afforded by the skeleton of the
tortoise.

The first step taken to secure the relative immobility of the trunk
is to unite in one rigid, bony column all its vertebræ, and to allow
of motion only in those of the neck and of the tail. The former,
accordingly, are all anchylosed together, leaving, indeed, traces
of their original forms as separate vertebræ, but exhibiting no
sutures at the place of junction. The canal for the spinal marrow is
preserved, as usual, above the bodies of these coalesced vertebræ,
and is formed by their united leaves; the arches being completed by
the spinous processes. But these processes do not terminate in a
crest as usual; they are further expanded in a lateral direction,
forming flat pieces along the back, which are united to one another
by sutures, and which are also joined to the expanded ribs, so as to
form the continuous plane surface of the carapace. The transverse
processes of the vertebræ are well marked, but, though firmly united
to the ribs, do not give rise to them; for the ribs, which are
flattened and expanded, so as to touch one another along their whole
length, are inserted below, between the bodies of every two adjoining
vertebræ; while above they are united by suture with the plates of
the spinous processes. This change in the situation of the ribs is
the consequence of the change in their office. When designed to be
very movable, we find them attached either to the extremities of
the transverse processes or to the articular surfaces of a single
vertebra; but where solidity and security are aimed at, they are
always inserted between the bodies of two vertebræ. It is remarkable,
indeed, that a great number of the peculiarities which distinguish
the conformation of the chelonia from that of other reptiles indicate
an approach to the structure of birds; as if Nature had intended this
small group of animals to be an intermediate link of gradation to
that new and important type of animals destined for a very different
mode of existence.

It is to be noticed, also, that as the plates, which form this
investing case, are bony structures, they could not with any safety
have been exposed to the action of the atmosphere. Hence we find them
covered throughout with a thin, horny plate, originally a production
of the integument. This substance is commonly known by the name of
tortoise-shell.

The immobility of the trunk is compensated, as far as regards the
safety of the head, by the great flexibility of the neck; which is
composed of seven vertebræ, unencumbered by processes, and capable
of taking a double curvature like the letter S, when the head is to
be retracted within the carapace. These vertebræ are joined by the
ball and socket articulation common to all the _existing_ species
of reptiles.[7] The articulation of the head with the neck is
effected in the same manner; but it is interesting to remark that the
occipital condyle, which is situated at the lower margin of the great
aperture, though presenting a single convex surface, yet has that
surface evidently divided into three parts; the two upper portions
being lateral and the lower portion in the middle.

The singular conformation of the bones of the head, in the turtle,
affords fresh evidence in support of the theory that these bones were
originally vertebræ. The brain of the tortoise is exceedingly small;
and yet the skull, when viewed from above, presents an appearance of
great breadth, as if it inclosed a cavity of large dimensions. This
great breadth of the head in the turtle gives the animal an aspect of
superior intelligence, to which character, from the really diminutive
size of its brain, it is in no respect entitled. As the turtle is
unable to withdraw its head within the carapace, such extraordinary
protection appears to have been necessary: for it is not met with in
the tortoise, which has a carapace sufficiently capacious to give
shelter to the head whenever occasion may require.

All the feet are joined obliquely to the limbs which support them,
giving the animal an apparent awkwardness of gait, as if it were
obliged to walk upon club feet. The impulse which they give being
lateral and oblique, renders them more efficacious for progression in
the water than on land: this circumstance, in conjunction with the
constitutional torpor of the animal, sufficiently accounts for the
excessive and, indeed, proverbial tardiness of its movements.

Security appears still to be the object aimed at in the mechanism of
all other parts of the skeleton. After the head has been drawn in by
the double or serpentine flexion of the neck, the knees are brought
together and the whole limb withdrawn within the shell, the forelegs
folding completely over the head, so as to cover and protect it most
effectually.

Considerable differences may be noticed in the structure of the
several species of Chelonia, according to the diversity of their
habits. Tortoises which live on land require more complete protection
by means of their shell than turtles, or Emydes, which dwell only in
the water: hence the convexity of their carapace, the solidity of its
ossification, its immovable connection with the plastron, and the
complete shelter it affords to the head and limbs. Turtles, on the
other hand, receiving support from the element in which they reside,
require less provision to be made for these objects. Previously to
the retraction of the head and limbs within the shell, the air is
expelled from the large cavities of the lungs by the vigorous actions
of the abdominal muscles, which exist in these animals as well as in
all the vertebrata, although here they are covered by the bones, and
compress the lungs by pushing the abdominal viscera against them.
This sudden expulsion of air is the cause of the long-continued
hissing sound which the tortoise emits while preparing to retreat
into its stronghold.

The ribs, though they first assume the form of broad plates
immovably united to the spine, when they have proceeded a certain
distance separate from each other and resume their usual form; the
intervening spaces between two adjacent ribs being here filled up
by membrane. The plastron is united with the carapace by membrane
likewise; and the sternum, instead of forming one broad plate of
bone, has the intervals between its imperfectly developed elements
also membraneous. All this renders the whole shell less compact,
more flexible, and more feeble: but the movements of the animal are
quicker and more energetic.

These characteristic differences between the aquatic Chelonia and
those that live on land are still more strongly marked in the genus
Trionyx, or soft tortoise, which is destitute of scales, and in which
many of the pieces that are bony in the tortoise are replaced by
simple cartilage or membrane.

The enormous weight of the shell of the turtle would be a serious
impediment to the motion of this animal in the water, were there
not some provision made for diminishing the specific gravity in the
body. This purpose is answered by the great capacity of the lungs,
which, when inflated with air, nearly fill the thorax, and give great
buoyancy to the whole mass. Thus, wherever there exists a supposed
inconvenience, dependent on the fulfilment of one condition, we are
certain to meet with a compensation in the structure of some other
part and in the mode of executing some other function. An express
provision for giving buoyancy has been made in the construction of
the shell of a species of tortoise inhabiting the coasts of the
Seychelle Islands. The under surface of the shell, instead of being
gently concave, as in land tortoises, has a deep circular concavity
in the centre, above four inches in depth, which, when the animal
goes into the water, retains a large volume of air, buoying up the
whole mass while it remains in that element. The greater size of
turtles, when compared with tortoises, is a further instance of the
superior facility with which organic growth proceeds in aquatic than
in land animals formed on the same model of construction.




  THE CLASSIFICATION AND ORIGIN OF INSECTS
  --LORD AVEBURY


About sixty years ago the civil and ecclesiastical authorities of
St. Fernando in Chili arrested a certain M. Renous on a charge of
witchcraft because he kept some caterpillars which turned into
butterflies. This was no doubt an extreme case of ignorance; it is
now almost universally known that the great majority of insects quit
the egg in a state very different from that which they ultimately
assume; and the general statement in works on entomology has been
that the life of an insect may be divided into four periods.

Thus, according to Kirby and Spence, “the states through which the
insects pass are four: the _egg_, the _larva_, the _pupa_, and the
_imago_.” Burmeister, also, says that, excluding certain very rare
anomalies, “we may observe four distinct periods of existence in
every insect--namely, those of the egg, the larva, the pupa, and
the imago, or perfect insect.” In fact, however, the various groups
of insects differ widely from one another in the metamorphoses they
pass through: in some, as in the grasshoppers and crickets, the
changes consist principally in a gradual increase of size, and in the
acquisition of wings; while others, as, for instance, the common fly,
acquire their full bulk in a form very different from that which they
ultimately assume, and pass through a period of inaction in which not
only is the whole form of the body altered, not only are legs and
wings acquired, but even the internal organs themselves are almost
entirely disintegrated and re-formed.

The following list gives the orders or principal groups into which
the Class Insecta may be divided. I will not, indeed, here enter upon
my own views, but will adopt the system given by Mr. Westwood in his
excellent _Introduction to the Modern Classification of Insects_. He
divides insects into thirteen groups, and with reference to eight of
them it may be said that there is little difference of opinion among
entomologists. These orders are by far the most numerous, and I have
placed them in capital letters. As regards the other five there is
still much difference of opinion. It must also be observed that Prof.
Westwood omits the parasitic Anoplura, as well as the Thysanura and
Collembola.


ORDERS OF INSECTS ACCORDING TO WESTWOOD

   1. HYMENOPTERA           Bees, Wasps, Ants, etc.
   2. Strepsiptera          Stylops, Zenos, etc.
   3. COLEOPTERA            Beetles.
   4. Euplexoptera          Earwigs.
   5. ORTHOPTERA            Grasshoppers, Crickets, Cockroaches, etc.
   6. Thysanoptera          Thrips.
   7. NEUROPTERA            Ephemeras, etc.
   8. Trichoptera           Phryganea.
   9. DIPTERA               Flies and Gnats.
  10. Aphaniptera           Fleas.
  11. HETEROPTERA           Bugs.
  12. HOMOPTERA             Aphis, Coccus, etc.
  13. LEPIDOPTERA           Butterflies and Moths.

Of these thirteen orders, the eight which I have placed in capital
letters--namely, the first, third, fifth, seventh, ninth, eleventh,
twelfth, and thirteenth--are much the most important in the number
and variety of their species; the other five form comparatively
small groups. The Strepsiptera are minute insects, parasitic on
Hymenoptera: Rossi, by whom they were discovered, regarded them as
Hymenopterous; Lamarck placed them among the Diptera; by others they
have been considered to be most closely allied to the Coleoptera, but
they are now generally treated as an independent order.

The Euplexoptera or Earwigs are only too familiar to most of us.
Linnæus classed them among the Coleoptera, from which, however, they
differ in their transformations. Fabricius, Olivier, and Latreille
regarded them as Orthoptera; but Dr. Leach, on account of the
structure of their wings, considered them as forming the type of
a distinct order, in which view he has been followed by Westwood,
Kirby, and many other entomologists.

The Thysanoptera, consisting of the Linnæan genus Thrips, are minute
insects well known to gardeners, differing from the Coleoptera in the
nature of their metamorphoses, in which they resemble the Orthoptera
and Hemiptera.

The Trichoptera, or Caddis worms, offer many points of resemblance
to the Neuroptera, while in others they approach more nearly to the
Lepidoptera. According to Westwood, the genus Phryganea “forms the
connecting link between the Neuroptera and Lepidoptera.”

The last of these small aberrant orders is that of the Aphaniptera,
constituted for the family Pulicidæ. In their transformations, as
in many other respects, they closely resemble the Diptera. Strauss
Durckheim indeed said that “_la puce est un diptère sans ailes_.”
Westwood, however, regards it as constituting a separate order.

As indicated by the names of these orders, the structure of the wings
affords extremely natural and convenient characters by which the
various groups may be distinguished from one another. The mouth-parts
also are very important; and, regarded from this point of view,
the Insecta have been divided into two series--the Mandibulata and
Haustellata, or mandibulate and suctorial groups, between which the
Collembola occupy an intermediate position. These two series are:

    MANDIBULATA.             HAUSTELLATA.
  Hymenoptera.             Lepidoptera.
  Strepsiptera.            Diptera.
  Coleoptera.              Aphaniptera.
  Euplexoptera.            Hemiptera.
  Orthoptera.              Homoptera.
  Trichoptera?
  Thysanoptera?

Again--and this is the most important from my present point of
view--insects have sometimes been divided into two other series,
according to the nature of their metamorphoses: “Heteromorpha,” to
use the terminology of Prof. Westwood, “or those in which there is no
resemblance between the parent and the offspring; and Homomorpha, or
those in which the larva resembles the imago, except in the absence
of wings. In the former the larva is generally worm-like, of a soft
and fleshy consistence, and furnished with a mouth, and often with
six short legs attached in pairs to the three segments succeeding
the head. In the Homomorpha, including the Orthoptera, Hemiptera,
Homoptera, and certain Neuroptera, the body, legs, and antennæ are
nearly similar in their form to those of the perfect insect, but the
wings are wanting.”

    HETEROMORPHA.                 HOMOMORPHA.
  Hymenoptera.                  Euplexoptera.
  Strepsiptera.                 Orthoptera.
  Coleoptera.                   Hemiptera.
  Trichoptera.                  Homoptera.
  Diptera.                      Thysanoptera.
  Aphaniptera.
  Lepidoptera.
                    Neuroptera.

But though the Homomorphic insects do not pass through such striking
changes of form as the Heteromorphic, and are active throughout
life, still it was until within the last few years generally (though
erroneously) considered, that in them, as in the Heteromorpha, the
life fell into four distinct periods; those of (1) the egg, (2)
the larva, characterized by the absence of wings, (3) the pupa with
imperfect wings, and (4) the imago, or perfect insect.

The species belonging to the order Hymenoptera are among the most
interesting of insects. To this order belong the gallflies, the
sawflies, the ichneumons, and, above all, the ants and bees. We are
accustomed to class the Anthropoid apes next to man in the scale
of creation, but if we were to judge animals by their works, the
chimpanzee and the gorilla must certainly give place to the bee and
the ant. The larvæ of the sawflies, which live on leaves, and of the
Siricidæ or long-tailed wasps, which feed on wood, are very much like
caterpillars, having three pairs of legs, and in the former case
abdominal prolegs as well: but in the great majority of Hymenoptera
the larvæ are legless, fleshy grubs; and the various modes by which
the females provide for, or secure to, them a sufficient supply of
appropriate nourishment constitutes one of the most interesting pages
of Natural History.

The species of Hymenoptera are very numerous; in England alone
there are about 3,000 kinds, most of which are very small. In the
pupa state they are inactive, and show distinctly all the limbs of
the perfect insect, incased in distinct sheaths, and folded on the
breast. In the perfect state they are highly organized and very
active. The working ants and some few species are wingless, but
the great majority have four strong membraneous wings, a character
distinguishing them at once from the true flies, which have only one
pair of wings.

The sawflies are so called because they possess at the end of the
body a curious organ, corresponding to the sting of a wasp, but
which is in the form of a fine-toothed saw. With this instrument
the female sawfly cuts a slit in the stem or leaf of a plant, into
which she introduces her egg. The larva much resembles a caterpillar,
both in form and habits. To this group belongs the nigger, or black
caterpillar of the turnip, which is often in sufficient numbers to
do much mischief. Some species make galls, but the greater number of
galls are formed by insects of another family, the Cynipidæ.

In the Cynipidæ the female is provided with an organ corresponding to
the saw of the sawfly, but resembling a needle. With this she stings
or punctures the surface of leaves, buds, stalks, or even roots of
various plants. In the wound thus produced she lays one or more eggs.
The effects of this proceeding, and particularly of the irritating
fluid which she injects into the wound, is to produce a tumor or
gall, within which the egg hatches, and on which the larva, a thick
fleshy grub, feeds. In some species each gall contains a single
larva; in others, many live together.

The oak supports several kinds of gallflies: one produces the
well-known oak-apple, one a small swelling on the leaf resembling a
currant, another a gall somewhat like an acorn, another attacks the
root; the species making the bullet-like galls, which are now so
common, has only existed for a few years in England; the beautiful
little spangles so common in autumn on the under side of oak leaves
are the work of another species, the Cynips longipennis. One curious
point about this group is, that in some of the commonest species the
females alone are known, no one yet having ever succeeded in finding
a male.

Another great family of the Hymenoptera is that of the ichneumons;
the females lay their eggs either in or on other insects, within
the bodies of which the larvæ live. These larvæ are thick, fleshy,
legless grubs, and feed on the fatty tissues of their hosts, but do
not attack the vital organs. When full-grown, the grubs eat their way
through the skin of the insect, and turn into chrysalides. Almost
every kind of insect is subject to the attacks of these little
creatures, which are no doubt useful in preventing the too great
multiplication of insects, and especially of caterpillars. Some
species are so minute that they actually lay their eggs within those
of other insects. These parasites assume very curious forms in their
larval state.

But of all the Hymenoptera, the group containing the ant, the bee,
and the wasp is the most interesting. This is especially the case
with the social species, though the solitary ones also are extremely
remarkable. The solitary bee or wasp, for instance, forms a cell
generally in the ground, places in it a sufficient amount of food,
lays an egg, and closes the cell. In the case of bees, the food
consists of honey; in that of wasps, the larva requires animal food,
and the mother therefore places a certain number of insects in the
cell, each species having its own special prey, some selecting small
caterpillars, some beetles, some spiders. Cerceris bupresticida, as
its name denotes, attacks beetles belonging to the genus Buprestis.
Now if the Cerceris were to kill the beetle before placing it in
the cell, it would decay, and the young larva, when hatched, would
find only a mass of corruption. On the other hand, if the beetle
were buried uninjured, in its struggles to escape it would be almost
certain to destroy the egg. The wasp has, however, the instinct of
stinging its prey in the centre of the nervous system, thus depriving
it of motion, and let us hope of suffering, but not of life;
consequently, when the young larva leaves the egg, it finds ready a
sufficient store of wholesome food.

Other wasps are social, and, like the bees and ants, dwell together
in communities. They live for one season, dying in autumn, except
some of the females, which hibernate, awake in the spring, and form
new colonies. These, however, do not, under ordinary circumstances,
live through a second winter. One specimen which I kept tame
through one spring and summer lived until the end of February, but
then died. The larvæ of wasps are fat, fleshy, legless grubs. When
full-grown they spin for themselves a silken covering, within which
they turn into chrysalides. The oval bodies which are so numerous in
ants’ nests, and which are generally called ants’ eggs, are really
not eggs, but cocoons. Ants are very fond of the honey-dew which
is formed by the Aphides, and have been seen to tap the Aphides
with their antennæ, as if to induce them to emit some of the sweet
secretion. There is a species of Aphis which lives on the roots of
grass, and some ants collect these into their nests, keeping them,
in fact, just as we do cows. Moreover, they collect the eggs in the
autumn and tend them through the winter (when they are of no use)
with the same care as their own, so as to have a supply of young
Aphides in the spring. This is one of the most remarkable facts I
know in the whole history of animal life. One species of red ant does
no work for itself, but makes slaves of a black kind, which then do
everything for their masters. The slave makers will not even put
food into their own mouths, but would starve in the midst of plenty
if they had not a slave to feed them. I found, however, that I could
keep them in life and health for months if I gave them a slave for an
hour or two in a week to clean and feed them.

Ants also keep a variety of beetles and other insects in their nests.
Some of these produce a secretion which is licked by the ants as they
do the honey-dew; there are others, however, which have not yet been
shown to be of any use to the ants, and yet are rarely, if ever,
found, excepting in ants’ nests. That the ants have some reason for
tolerating their presence seems clear, because they readily attack
any unwelcome intruder; but what that reason is, we do not yet know.
If these insects are to be regarded as the domestic animals of the
ants, then we must admit that the ants possess more domestic animals
than we do.

M. Lespès, who regards these insects as true domestic animals, has
recorded some interesting observations on the relations between one
of them (Claviger Duvalii) and the ants (Lasius niger) with which
it lives. This species of Claviger is never met with except in
ants’ nests, though, on the other hand, there are many communities
of Lasius which possess none of these beetles; and M. Lespès found
that when he placed Clavigers in a nest of ants which had none
of their own, the beetles were immediately killed and eaten, the
ants themselves being, on the other hand, kindly received by other
communities of the same species. He concludes from these observations
that some communities of ants are more advanced in civilization than
others; the suggestion is no doubt ingenious, and the fact curiously
resembles the experience of navigators who have endeavored to
introduce domestic animals among barbarous tribes.

The order Strepsiptera are a small but very remarkable group
of insects, parasitic on bees and wasps. The larva is minute,
six-legged, and very active; it passes through its transformations
within the body of the bee or wasp. The male and female are very
dissimilar. The males are minute, very active, short-lived, and
excitable, with one pair of large membraneous wings. The females,
on the contrary, are almost motionless, and shaped very much like a
bottle; they never quit the body of the bee, but only thrust out the
top of the bottle between the abdominal rings of the bee.

In the order Coleoptera, the larvæ differ very much in form. The
majority are elongated, active, hexapod, and more or less depressed;
but those of the Weevils, of Scolytus, etc., which are vegetable
feeders, and live surrounded by their food--as, for instance, in
grain, nuts, etc.--are apod, white, fleshy grubs, not unlike those of
bees and ants. The larvæ of the Longicorns, which live inside trees,
are long, soft, and fleshy, with six short legs. The Geodephaga,
corresponding with the Linnæan genera Cicindela and Carabus, have
six-legged, slender, carnivorous larvæ; those of Cicindela, which
waylay their prey, being less active than the hunting larvæ of
the Carabidæ. The Hydradephaga, or water-beetles, have long and
narrow larvæ, with strong sickle-shaped jaws, short antennæ, four
palpi, and six small eyes on each side of the head; they are very
voracious. The larvæ of the Staphylinidæ are by no means unlike
the perfect insect, and are found in similar situations; their
jaws are powerful, and their legs moderately strong. The larvæ of
the Lamellicorn beetles--cock-chafers, stag-beetles, etc.--feed on
vegetable substances or on dead animal matter. They are long, soft,
fleshy grubs, with the abdomen somewhat curved, and generally lie on
their side. The larvæ of the Elateridæ, known as wireworms, are long
and slender, with short legs. That of the glowworm (Lampyridæ) is
not unlike the apterous female. The male glowworm, on the contrary,
is very different. It has long, thin, brown wing-cases, and often
flies into rooms at night, attracted by the light which it probably
mistakes for that of its mate.

The metamorphoses of the Cantharidæ are very remarkable. The larvæ
are at first active and hexapod. The Phytophaga are vegetable
feeders, both as larvæ and in the perfect state. The larvæ are
furnished with legs, and are not unlike the caterpillars of certain
Lepidoptera.

The larva of Coccinella (the ladybird) is somewhat depressed, of an
elongated ovate form, with a small head, and moderately strong legs.
It feeds on Aphides.

Thus, then, we see that there are among the Coleoptera many different
forms of larvæ. Macleay considered that there were five principal
types.

The pupa of the Coleoptera is quiescent, and “the parts of the future
beetle are plainly perceivable, being incased in distinct sheaths;
the head is applied against the breast; the antennæ lie along the
sides of the thorax; the elytra and wings are short and folded at
the sides of the body, meeting on the under side of the abdomen; the
two anterior pairs of legs are entirely exposed, but the hind pair
are covered by wing-cases, the extremity of the thigh only appearing
beyond the sides of the body.”[8]

In the next three orders--namely, the Orthoptera (grasshoppers,
locusts, crickets, walking-stick insects, cockroaches, etc.),
Euplexoptera (earwigs), and Thysanoptera, a small group of insects
well known to gardeners under the name of Thrips--the larvæ when
they quit the egg already much resemble the mature form, differing,
in fact, principally in the absence of wings, which are more or less
gradually acquired, as the insect increases in size. They are active
throughout life. Those specimens which have rudimentary wings are,
however, usually called pupæ.

The Neuroptera present, perhaps, more differences in the character
of their metamorphoses than any other order of insects. Their larvæ
are generally active, hexapod little creatures, and do not vary from
one another in appearance so much, for instance, as those of the
Coleoptera, but their pupæ differ essentially; some groups remaining
active throughout life, like the Orthoptera; while a second division
have quiescent pupæ, which, however, in some cases, acquire more or
less power of locomotion shortly before they assume the mature state;
thus that of Raphidia, though motionless at first, at length acquires
strength enough to walk, even while still inclosed in the pupa skin,
which is very thin.

One of the most remarkable families belonging to this order is that
of the Termites, or so-called white ants. They abound in the tropics,
where they are a perfect pest, and a serious impediment to human
development. Their colonies are extremely numerous, and they attack
woodwork and furniture of all kinds, generally working from within,
so that their presence is often unsuspected until it is suddenly
found that they have completely eaten away the interior of some post
or table, leaving nothing but a thin outer shell. Their nests, which
are made of earth, are sometimes ten or twelve feet high, and strong
enough to bear a man. One species, Termes lucifugus, is found in the
south of France, where it has been carefully studied by Latreille.
He found in these communities five kinds of individuals--(1) males;
(2) females, which grow to a very large size, their bodies being
distended with eggs, of which they sometimes lay as many as 80,000 in
a day; (3) a form described by some observers as pupæ, but by others
as neuters. These differ very much from the others, having a long,
soft body without wings, but with an immense head, and very large,
strong jaws. These individuals act as soldiers, doing apparently no
work, but keeping watch over the nest and attacking intruders with
great boldness. (4) Apterous eyeless individuals, somewhat resembling
the winged ones, but with a larger and more rounded head; these
constitute the greater part of the community, and, like the workers
of ants and bees, perform all the labor, building the nest and
collecting food. (5) Latreille mentions another kind of individual
which he regards as the pupa, and which resembles the workers, but
has four white tubercles on the back, where the wings afterward make
their appearance. There is still, however, much difference of opinion
among entomologists with reference to the true nature of these
different classes of individuals. M. Lespès, who has studied the same
species, describes a second kind of male and a second kind of female,
and the subject, indeed, is one which offers a most promising field
for future study.

Another interesting family of Neuroptera is that of the Ephemeræ, or
Mayflies, so well known to fishermen. The larvæ are semi-transparent,
active, six-legged little creatures, which live in water; having at
first no gills, they respire through the general surface of the body.
They grow rapidly and change their skin every few days. After one or
two moults they acquire seven pairs of branchiæ, or gills, which are
generally in the form of leaves, one pair to the segment. When the
larvæ are about half grown, the posterior angles of the two posterior
thoracic segments begin to elongate. These elongations become more
and more marked with every change of skin. One morning, in the month
of June, some years ago, I observed a full-grown larva, which had a
glistening appearance, owing to the presence of a film of air under
the skin. I put it under the microscope, and, having added a drop of
water with a pipette, looked through the glass. To my astonishment,
the insect was gone, and an empty skin only remained. I then caught
a second specimen in a similar condition, and put it under the
microscope, hoping to see it come out. Nor was I disappointed. Very
few moments had elapsed, when I had the satisfaction of seeing the
thorax open along the middle of the back; the two sides turned over;
the insect literally walked out of itself, unfolded its wings, and
in an instant flew up to the window. Several times since, I have had
the pleasure of witnessing this marvelous change, and it is really
wonderful how rapidly it takes place: from the moment when the skin
first cracks, not ten seconds are over before the insect has flown
away.

Another family of Neuroptera, the dragon-flies, or horse-stingers,
as they are sometimes called, from a mistaken idea that they sting
severely enough to hurt a horse, though in fact they are quite
harmless, also spend their early days in the water. The larvæ are
brown, sluggish, ugly creatures, with six legs. They feed on small
water-animals, for which they wait very patiently, either at the
bottom of the water or on some aquatic plant. The lower jaws are
attached to a long folding rod; and when any unwary little creature
approaches too near the larva, this apparatus is shot out with such
velocity that the prey which comes within its reach seldom escapes.
In their perfect condition, also, dragon-flies feed on other insects,
and may often be seen hawking round ponds. The so-called ant-lions
in many respects resemble the dragon-flies, but the habits of the
larvæ are very dissimilar. They do not live in the water, but prefer
dry places, where they bury themselves in the loose sand, and seize
with their long jaws any small insect which may pass. The true
ant-lion makes itself a round, shallow pit in loose ground or sand,
and buries itself at the bottom. Any inattentive little insect which
steps over the edge of this pit immediately falls to the bottom, and
is instantaneously seized by the ant-lion. Should the insect escape,
and attempt to climb up the side of the pit, the ant-lion is said to
throw sand at it, knocking it down again.

One other family of Neuroptera which I must mention is the
Hemerobiidæ. The perfect insect is a beautiful, lace-winged, very
delicate, green creature, something like a tender dragon-fly, and
with bright, green, touching eyes. The female deposits her eggs on
leaves, not directly on the plant itself, but attached to it by a
long white slender footstalk. The larva has six legs and powerful
jaws, and makes itself very useful in destroying the hop-fly.

The insects forming the order Trichoptera are well known in their
larval condition under the name of caddis worms. These larvæ are
not altogether unlike caterpillars in form, but they live in
water--which is the case with very few lepidopterous larvæ--and form
for themselves cylindrical cases or tubes, built up of sand, little
stones, bits of stick, leaves, or even shells. They generally feed
on vegetable substances, but will also attack minute fresh-water
animals. When full grown, the larva fastens its case to a stone, the
stem of a plant, or some other fixed substance, and closes the two
ends with an open grating of silken threads, so as to admit the free
access of water, while excluding enemies. It then turns into a pupa
which bears some resemblance to the perfect insect, “except that the
antennæ, palpi, wings, and legs are shorter, inclosed in separate
sheaths, and arranged upon the breast.” The pupa remains quiet in
the tube until nearly ready to emerge, when it comes to the surface,
and in some cases creeps out of the water. It is not therefore so
completely motionless as the pupæ of Lepidoptera.

The Diptera, or flies, comprise insects with two wings only, the
hinder pair being represented by minute club-shaped organs called
“haltères.” Flies quit the egg generally in the form of fat, fleshy,
legless grubs. They feed principally on decaying animal or vegetable
matter, and are no doubt useful as scavengers. Other species, as the
gadflies, deposit their eggs on the bodies of animals, within which
the grubs feed, when hatched. The mouth is generally furnished with
two hooks which serve instead of jaws. The pupæ of Diptera are of two
kinds. In the true flies, the outer skin of the full-grown larva is
not shed, but contracts and hardens, thus assuming the appearance of
an oval brownish shell or case, within which the insect changes into
a chrysalis. The pupæ of the gnats, on the contrary, have the limbs
distinct and inclosed in sheaths. They are generally inactive, but
some of the aquatic species continue to swim about.

One group of flies, which is parasitic on horses, sheep, bats, and
other animals, has been called the Pupipara, because it was supposed
that they were not born until they had arrived at the condition of
pupæ. They come into the world in the form of smooth, ovate bodies,
much resembling ordinary dipterous pupæ, but as Leuckart has shown,
they are true, though abnormal, larvæ.

The next order, that of the Aphaniptera, is very small in number,
containing only the different species of flea. The larva is long,
cylindrical, and legless; the chrysalis is motionless, and the
perfect insect is too well known, at least as regards its habits, to
need any description.

The Heteroptera, unlike the preceding orders of insects, quit the
egg in a form differing from that of the perfect insect principally
in the absence of wings, which are gradually acquired. In their
metamorphoses they resemble the Orthoptera, and are active through
life. The majority are dull in color, though some few are very
beautiful. The species constituting this group, though very numerous,
are generally small, and not so familiarly known to us as those of
the other large orders, with indeed one exception, the well-known
bug. This is not, apparently, an indigenous insect, but seems to have
been introduced. The word is indeed used by old writers, but either
as meaning a bugbear, or in a general sense, and not with reference
to this particular insect. In Britain it never acquires wings, but
is stated to do so sometimes in warmer climates. The Heteroptera can
not exactly be said either to sting or bite. The jaws, of which, as
usual among insects, there are two pairs, are like needles, which
are driven into the flesh, and the blood is then sucked up by the
lower lip, which has the form of a tube. This peculiar structure of
the mouth prevails throughout the whole order; consequently their
nutriment consists almost entirely of the juices of animals or
plants. The Homoptera agree with the Heteroptera in the structure of
the mouth, and in the metamorphoses. They differ principally in the
front wings, which in Homoptera are membraneous throughout, while in
the Heteroptera, the front part is thickened and leathery. As in the
Heteroptera, however, so also in the Homoptera, some species do not
acquire wings. The Cicada, celebrated for its chirp, and the lanthorn
fly, belong to this group. So also does the so-called cuckoo-spit, so
common in English gardens, which has the curious faculty of secreting
round itself a quantity of frothy fluid which serves to protect it
from its enemies. But the best known insects of this group are the
Aphides or plant-lice; while the most useful belong to the Coccidæ,
or scale insects, from one species of which we obtain the substance
called lac, so extensively used in the manufacture of sealing-wax and
varnish. Several species also have been used in dyeing, especially
the cochineal insect of Mexico, a species which lives on the cactus.
The male coccus is a minute, active insect, with four large wings;
while the female, on the contrary, never acquires wings, but is
very sluggish, broad, more or less flattened, and in fact, when full
grown, looks like a small brown, red, or white scale.

The larvæ of the order Lepidoptera are familiar to us all under the
name of caterpillars. The insects of this order in their larval
condition are almost all phytophagous, and are very uniform both in
structure and in habits. The body is long and cylindrical, consisting
of thirteen segments; the head is armed with powerful jaws; the
three following segments, the future prothorax, mesothorax, and
metathorax, each bears a pair of simple articulated legs. Of the
posterior segments, five also bear false or prolegs, which are short,
unjointed, and provided with a number of hooklets. A caterpillar
leads a dull and uneventful life; it eats ravenously and grows
rapidly, casting its skin several times during the process, which
generally lasts only a few weeks; though in some cases, as, for
instance, that of the goat-moth, it extends over a period of two or
three years, after which the larva changes into a quiescent pupa or
chrysalis.

Fossil insects are, unfortunately, rare, there being but few strata
in which the remains of this group are well preserved. Moreover,
well-characterized Orthoptera and Neuroptera occur as early as the
Devonian strata; Coleoptera and Hemiptera in the Coal-measures;
Hymenoptera and Diptera in the Jurassic; Lepidoptera, on the
contrary, not until the Tertiary. But although it appears from these
facts that, as far as our present information goes, the Orthoptera
and Neuroptera are the most ancient orders, it is not, I think,
conceivable that the latter should have been derived from any
known species of the former; on the other hand, the earliest known
Neuroptera and Orthoptera, though in some respects less specialized
than existing forms, are as truly and as well characterized insects
as any now existing; nor are we acquainted with any earlier forms
which in any way tend to bridge over the gap between them and lower
groups, though, as we shall see, there are types yet existing which
throw much light on the subject.

The stag-beetle, the dragon-fly, the moth, the bee, the ant, the
gnat, the grasshopper--these and other less familiar types seem
at first to have little in common. They differ in size, in form,
in color, in habits, and modes of life. Yet the researches of
entomologists, following the clew supplied by the illustrious
Savigny, have proved not only that while differing greatly in details
they are constructed on one common plan, but also that other groups,
as, for instance, Crustacea (lobsters, crabs, etc.) and Arachnida
(spiders and mites), can be shown to be fundamentally similar.

Thus, then, although it can be demonstrated that perfect insects,
however much they differ in appearance, are yet reducible to one
type, the fact becomes much more evident if we compare the larvæ. M.
Brauer and I have pointed out that two types of larvæ, which I have
proposed to call Campodea-form and Lindia-form, and which Packard has
named Leptiform and Eruciform, run through the principal groups of
insects.

[Illustration: Strange and Rare Fishes

1, Diodon; 2, Rhinobatus; 3, Tetrodon; 4, Galaxias; 5, Pterois; 6,
Ostracion; 7, Pelor; 8, Amia; 9, Haplochiton; 10, Callionymus; 11,
Cottus; 12, Malthe; 13, Blennius; 14, Pomacentrus; 15, Chromis; 16,
Scorpæna]

Let me say a word as to the general insect type. It may be described
shortly as consisting of animals possessing a head, with mouth-parts,
eyes, and antennæ; a many-segmented body, with three pairs of legs
on the segments immediately following the head; with, when mature,
either one or two pairs of wings, generally with caudal appendages.

Thus, then, we find in many of the principal groups of insects
that, greatly as they differ from one another in their mature
condition, when they leave the egg they more nearly resemble the
typical insect type, consisting of a head, a three-segmented thorax,
with three pairs of legs, and a many-jointed abdomen, often with
anal appendages. Now, is there any mature animal which answers to
this description? We need not have been surprised if this type,
through which it would appear that insects must have passed so
many ages since (for winged Neuroptera have been found in the
carboniferous strata), had long ago become extinct. Yet it is not
so. The interesting genus Campodea still lives; it inhabits damp
earth, and closely resembles the larva of Chloëon, constituting,
indeed, a type which occurs in many orders of insects. It is true
that the mouth-parts of Campodea do not resemble either the strongly
mandibulate form which prevails among the larvæ of Coleoptera,
Orthoptera, Neuroptera, Hymenoptera, Lepidoptera; or the suctorial
type of the Homoptera and Heteroptera. It is, however, not the less
interesting or significant on that account, since its mouth-parts are
intermediate between the mandibulate and haustellate types; a fact
which seems to me most suggestive.

It appears, then, that there are good grounds for considering that
the various types of insects are descended from ancestors more or
less resembling the genus Campodea, with a body divided into head,
thorax, and abdomen; the head provided with mouth-parts, eyes, and
one pair of antennæ; the thorax with three pairs of legs; and the
abdomen, in all probability, with caudal appendages.

If these views are correct, the genus Campodea must be regarded as a
form of remarkable interest, since it is the living representative of
a primeval type, from which not only the Collembola and Thysanura,
but the other great orders of insects have derived their origin.

Since, then, individual insects are certainly in many cases developed
from larvæ closely resembling the genus Campodea, why should it be
regarded as incredible that insects as a group have gone through
similar stages? That the ancestors of beetles under the influence of
varying external conditions, and in the lapse of geological ages,
should have undergone changes which the individual beetle passes
through under our own eyes and in the space of a few days, is surely
no wild or extravagant hypothesis. Again, other insects come from
vermiform larvæ much resembling the genus Lindia, and it has been
also repeatedly shown that in many particulars the embryo of the
more specialized forms resembles the full-grown representatives of
lower types. I conclude, therefore, that the Insecta generally are
descended from ancestors resembling the existing genus Campodea,
and that these again have arisen from others belonging to a type
represented more or less closely by the existing genus Lindia.

Of course it may be argued that these facts have not really the
significance which they seem to me to possess. It may be said that
when Divine power created insects, they were created with these
remarkable developmental processes. By such arguments the conclusions
of geologists were long disputed. When God made the rocks, it was
tersely said, He made the fossils in them. No one, I suppose, would
now be found to maintain such a theory; and I believe the time will
come when it will be generally admitted that the structure of the
embryo, and its developmental changes, indicate as truly the course
of organic development in ancient times as the contents of rocks and
their sequence teach us the past history of the earth itself.




  INSECTS: THEIR WINGS, STINGS, EARS, AND EYES
  --PHILIP HENRY GOSSE


The most perfect fliers in existence are insects. The swallow and
the humming-bird are powerful on the wing, and rapid; but neither
these nor any other “winged fowl” can be compared with many of the
filmy-winged insects. The common house-fly, for example, will remain
for hours together floating in the air beneath the ceilings of our
dwelling-rooms, hovering and dancing from side to side, without
effort and without fatigue. It has been calculated that in its
ordinary flight the house-fly makes about 600 strokes with its wings
every second, and that it is carried through the air a distance of
five feet during that brief period. But, if alarmed, the velocity
can be increased six or sevenfold, as every one must have observed,
so as to carry the insect thirty or five-and-thirty feet in the
second. In the same space of time, observes Mr. Kirby, a race-horse
could clear only ninety feet, which is at the rate of more than a
mile a minute. Our little fly, in her swiftest flight, will in the
same space of time go more than the third of a mile. Now compare the
infinite difference of the size of the two animals (ten millions of
the fly would hardly counterpoise one racer), and how wonderful will
the velocity of this minute creature appear! Did the fly equal the
race-horse in size, and retain its present powers in the ratio of its
magnitude, it would traverse the globe with the rapidity of lightning.

Bees, again, are accomplished masters of aerial motion. The
humblebees, notwithstanding their heavy bodies, are the most powerful
fliers of this class. The same excellent entomologist tells us that
they “traverse the air in segments of a circle, the arc of which
is alternately to right and left. The rapidity of their flight
is so great that, could it be calculated, it would be found, the
size of the creature considered, far to exceed that of any bird,
as has been proved by the observations of a traveler in a railway
carriage proceeding at the rate of twenty miles an hour, which was
accompanied, though the wind was against them, for a considerable
distance by a humblebee (Bombus subinterruptus), not merely with the
same rapidity, but even greater, as it not infrequently flew to and
fro about the carriage, or described zigzag lines in its flight. The
aerial movements of the hive-bee are more distinct and leisurely.”

You have doubtless often admired the noble dragon-fly, with its four
ample and widespread wings of gauze, hawking in a green lane, or over
a pool in the noon of summer. It sails, or rather shoots with arrowy
fleetness hither and thither, now forward, now backward, now to the
right, now to the left, without turning its body, but simply by the
action of its powerful and elegant wings. Leeuwenhoek once saw an
insect of this tribe chased by a swallow in a menagerie a hundred
feet long. The dragon-fly shot along with such astonishing power of
wing, to the right, to the left, and in all directions, that this
bird of rapid flight and ready evolution was unable to overtake and
capture it, the insect eluding every attempt, and being in general
fully six feet in advance of the bird. A dragon-fly has been known
to fly on board a ship at sea, the nearest land being the coast of
Africa, five hundred miles distant, a fact highly illustrative of its
power of wing.

It is a point of interest to know the structure of the organs by
which such results are accomplished. Let us begin with the common
fly. Well, we will borrow one of his wings for the lesson, and,
putting it into the stage-forceps, we shall be able to turn it in any
direction for observation beneath the microscope.

At first it seems a very thin, transparent membrane, of a shape
between triangular and oval, with a few fine black lines running
through it, and along one edge. But on bringing a greater magnifying
power to bear on it, we see that the clear surface is covered with
minute short stiff hairs, each of which has an expanded base. And
still further, by delicate focusing, we find that there are two sets
of these hairs, which come into view alternately, those of one row
projecting upward toward our eye, those of the other downward. They
are placed on both the upper and under surface, and are in fact
appendages of two distinct membranes, applied to each other. There
is some reason to believe that these hairs are delicate organs of
touch communicating impressions through the skin to a sensitive layer
beneath; at least such seems their function on the body, and we may
judge from analogy that it is not different here.

The black lines are elastic, horny tubes, over which the membranes
are spread and stretched, like the silk of an umbrella by its ribs.
The upper membrane is firmly attached to the tubes (which are called
nervures); the lower has but a slight adhesion, and is easily
stripped from them. The nervures originate in the body, and diverge
like a fan to various points of the tip, and to the upper and lower
edges; some of them, however, terminate in the substance of the
wing without reaching the edge, and some send off cross branches by
which two are connected together. They generally maintain the same
thickness throughout, but there are enlargements where the branches
join the main trunks. These nervures are hollow, and are, during
life, filled with a subtile fluid, which is supplied from the vessels
of the body. They contain also ramifications of the exquisite spiral
air-vessels.

In this wing of the bee all of these structures may be seen to
greater advantage. Unlike the fly, which has but a single pair of
wings, the bee has two pairs, of which the fore pair is the larger
and more horny, the hinder pair seeming to be, as it were, cut out of
the hinder and inner side of the fore ones. The two edges--the hinder
edge of the fore pair and the front edge of the hind pair--then
correspond, but it is necessary that, during flight, when the wings
are expanded, the two wings on each side should _maintain_ this
relative position, neither overlapping the other, but together
presenting one broad surface, wherewith to beat the air. There must
be, therefore, some contrivance for locking together the two edges
in question, which yet shall be capable of being unlocked at the
pleasure of the animal; for the wings during repose slide over one
another. This contrivance is furnished by a series of hairs or spines
running along the front edge of the hindwing; they are bent up into
strong semicircular hooks, arching outward, looking, under a high
power, like the hooks on a butcher’s stall. On the other hand, the
margin of the forewing is strengthened, and is turned over with a
shallow doubling, so as to make a groove into which the hooks catch;
and thus, while the forewings are expanded, the hooks of the other
pair are firmly locked in their doubled edge, while, as soon as
flight ceases, and the wings are relaxed, there is no hindrance to
the sliding of the front over the hind pair.

The wings of many insects are interesting on account of the organs
with which they are clothed. A familiar example is furnished by the
common gnat. There is the same general structure as before--two clear
elastic membranes stretched over slender horny tubular nervures, and
studded on both surfaces with short spine-like hairs, which in this
case, however, are excessively numerous and minute. But along the
nervures, and along other lines which run (generally) parallel with
the front margin, and also along the whole margin, there are set long
leaf-like scales of very curious appearance and structure.

There are, however, other insects which display these or similar
appendages in far greater profusion, and in much variety of form and
appearance. In the fissures of cliffs that border the seashore may
often be found some wingless but active insects, which are endowed
with the power of leaping in great perfection. From their hinder
extremity being furnished with long projecting bristles, they are
sometimes called bristle-tails, but naturalists designate the genus
Machilis. If you can get one sufficiently still to examine it, you
will be delighted with the lustre of its clothing, which appears
dusted all over with a metallic powder of rich colors--red, brown,
orange, and yellow, foiled by dull lead-gray in places.

If you touch one of these nimble leapers, though ever so slightly,
you will see the result on your finger-ends, for they will be found
covered with a thin stratum of the finest dust, which displays the
colored metallic reflection seen on the insect. By touching one with
a plate of glass, instead of your finger, you will get the same
dust to adhere to this transparent medium, by applying which to
the microscope you may at once discern the marvelous nature of the
raiment with which the little creature is bedecked.

The dust is now seen to be composed of myriads of thin scales,
mostly regular and symmetrical in their forms, though varying
exceedingly among themselves in this respect. Some are heart-shaped,
some shovel-shaped, some round, oval, elliptical, half round, half
elliptical, long and narrow, sometimes irregular and unequal, and of
various other indescribable outlines.

The beautiful and extensive order called Lepidoptera or scale-winged,
_par excellence_, including the gay tribes of butterflies and moths,
presents us with many exceedingly interesting varieties in these
singular coverings.

Here are specimens from the pretty little white five-plume moth
(Pterophorus), so common in meadows in summer. The general shape of
the scales from the body and wings is that of a willow-leaf, some
singly pointed, but more cut at the tip into two, three, or four
notches. Those from the legs are longer and slenderer in proportion;
and among the others from the wings there are some which take the
form of hairs, which send forth one or more branches from one side,
that form a very acute angle with the main stem. The scales proper
are all marked with longitudinal lines, very minute and close, but
they mostly bear a central band, and sometimes a marginal one on each
side, of spots set in sinuous lines like the bands on a mackerel’s
back; these are probably composed of pigment-granules.

The hairs with which the bodies of moths are invested are essentially
of the same character as the scales which clothe their wings. Here
are examples from the glowing sides of the abdomen of that richly
colored insect, the cream-spot tiger-moth (Arctia villica). You
see they are simple scales, drawn out to an inordinate length and
great tenuity; each has its quill-like footstalk, and we may trace
on some of them the ribs and transverse dotting, while here we see
all intermediate stages between the slenderest hair and the broadly
ovate, bluntly pointed scales from the wings.

You are familiar, of course, with the brilliant little blue butterfly
(Polyommatus Alexis) which dances and glitters in the sunshine on
waste places in June. Among the scales of ordinary form which clothe
the lovely little wings will occur one here and there of a different
shape from the rest. Here you may see one; it is much smaller than
the average; the footstalk is very long, and the shape of the entire
scale is that of a battledoor. The ribs are rather few and coarse,
and they have this peculiarity, that each rib swells at intervals
into rounded dilatations, each of which has a minute black point in
its centre. In some of these battledoor scales there is, near the
lower part of the expansion, a crescent of minute pigment-grains.

Scales taken from the brilliant changeable blue-green patch in
the hindwing of Papilio Paris, a fine Indian butterfly, have an
interesting appearance. They are simply pear-shaped in outline, with
few longitudinal ribs set far apart, and numerous strongly marked
corrugations running across between them. That these are really
elevations of the surface is well seen in some scales, even with
transmitted light, and a high power; for the slopes of the wrinkles
that face the light display the lustrous emerald reflection proper to
the wing, while the transmitted color of the whole scale is a rich
transparent red.

The dimensions of the scales do not bear any certain proportion to
the size of the insect which is clothed with them; those from the
broad wings of the noble Saturnia Atlas, for example, eight or nine
inches in expanse, being exceeded in size by some from those of the
little British muslin moth, an inch wide.

The little beetles which we are familiar with under the name of
weevils, characterized by their long slender snouts, at the end of
which they carry curiously folding antennæ, and which constitute
the family Curculionidæ, are in many cases clothed with scales, to
which they owe their colors and patterns. Several of British species
display a green or silvery lustre, which under the microscope is seen
to be produced by oval scales. But these are eclipsed by the splendor
of many tropical species, especially that well-known one from South
America which is called the diamond beetle, and scientifically
Entimus imperialis, from its unparalleled magnificence.

A piece of one of the wing-cases of this beetle is gummed to the
slide now upon the stage. We look at it by reflected light with a
magnifying power of 130 diameters. We see a black ground, on which
are strewn a profusion of what look like precious stones blazing in
the most gorgeous lustre. Topazes, sapphires, amethysts, rubies,
emeralds seem here sown broadcast; and yet not wholly without
regularity, for there are broad bands of the deep black surface,
where there are no gems, and, though at considerable diversity
of angle, they do all point with more or less precision in one
direction, viz., that of the bands. These gems are flat transparent
scales, very regularly oval in form, for one end is rather more
pointed than the other; there is no appearance of a footstalk, and
by what means they adhere I know not; they are evidently attached in
some manner by the smaller extremity to the velvety black surface of
the wing-case. The gorgeous colors seem dependent in some measure
on the reflection of light from their polished surface, and to vary
according to the angle at which it is reflected. Green, yellow,
and orange hues predominate; crimson, violet, and blue are rare,
except upon the long and narrow scales that border the suture of the
wing-cases, where these colors are the chief reflected.

If you have ever thought on the subject, you have probably taken
for granted that the various sounds produced by insects are voices
uttered by their mouths. But it is not so. No insect has anything
approaching to a voice. Vocal sounds are produced by the emission of
air from the lungs variously modified by the organs of the mouth. But
no insect breathes through its mouth; no air is expelled thence in
a single species; it is a biting, or piercing, or sucking organ; an
organ for the taking of food, or an organ for offence or defence; but
never an organ of sound. The wings are in most cases the immediate
causes of insect sounds.

There is a pretty little beetle (Clytus), not uncommon in summer in
gardens, remarkable for the brilliant gamboge-yellow lines across
its dark wing-cases, which makes a curious squeaking sound when you
take it in your hand. You think it is crying; but if you carefully
examine it with a lens while the noise is uttered, you will perceive
that the cause is the grating of the thorax against the front part of
the two wing-cases. Several other beetles produce similar sounds when
alarmed, by rubbing the other end of the wing-sheaths with the tip of
the abdomen. Many of those genera which feed on ordure and carrion do
this.

But the noisiest of all insects are those of the classes Orthoptera
and Homoptera, the crickets and grasshoppers, and the treehoppers.
The locusts and grasshoppers, it appears, make use of their hindlegs
in producing their crink. If you look at the grasshopper’s leg,
you will see that the thigh is marked with a number of transverse
overlapping angular plates, and that the shank carries a series of
short horny points along each side. The insect when it crinks brings
the shank up to its thigh, and rubs both to and fro against the
wing-sheaths, doing this by turns with the right and left legs, which
causes the regular breaks in the sound.

In this case we may without hesitation conclude that the friction
of the thigh-plates and shank-points on the rough edges of the
wing-cases produces the musical vibration of the tense membrane, as
rubbing a wet glass with the finger will yield a loud musical note.

The most elaborate contrivance for the production of sounds among
the insect races, however, is found among the Cicadæ, celebrated in
classical poetry as the very impersonations of song and eloquence.

Probably at some period of your life you have been stung by a bee
or wasp. I shall take it for granted that you have, and that having
tested the potency of these warlike insects’ weapons with one sense,
you have a curiosity to examine them with another. The microscope
shall aid your vision to investigate the morbific implement.

This is the sting of the honey-bee. It consists of a dark brown horny
sheath, bulbous at the base, but suddenly diminishing, and then
tapering to a fine point. This sheath is split entirely along the
inferior edge, and by pressure with a needle I have been enabled to
project the two lancets, which commonly lie within the sheath. These
are two slender filaments of the like brown horny substance, of which
the centre is tubular, and carries a fluid, in which bubbles are
visible. The extremity of each displays a beautiful mechanism, for it
is thinned away into two thin blade-edges, of which one remains keen
and knife-like, while the opposite edge is cut into several saw teeth
pointing backward.

The lancets do not appear to be united with the sheath in any part,
but simply to lie in its groove; their basal portions pass out into
the body behind the sheath, where you see a number of muscle-bands
crowded around them: these, acting in various directions, and being
inserted into the lancets at various points, exercise a complete
control over their movements, projecting or retracting them at their
will. But each lancet has a singular projection from its back,
which appears to act in some way as a guide to its motion, probably
preventing it from slipping aside when darted forth, for the bulbous
part of the sheath, in which these projections work, seems formed
expressly to receive them.

Thus we see an apparatus beautifully contrived to enter the flesh
of an enemy: the two spears finely pointed, sharp-edged, and
saw-toothed, adapted for piercing, cutting, and tearing; the reversed
direction of the teeth gives the weapon a hold in the flesh, and
prevents it from being readily drawn out. Here is an elaborate
store of power for the jactation of the javelins, in the numerous
muscle-bands; here is a provision made for the precision of the
impulse; and finally, here is a polished sheath for the reception of
the weapons and their preservation when not in actual use. All this
is perfect; but something still was wanting to render the weapons
effective, and that something your experience has proved to be
supplied.

The mere intromission of these points, incomparably finer and
sharper than the finest needle that was ever polished in a Sheffield
workshop, would produce no result appreciable to our feelings; and
most surely would not be followed by the distressing agony attendant
on the sting of a bee. We must look for something more than we have
seen.

We need not be long in finding it. For here, at the base of the
sheath, into which it enters by a narrow neck, lies a transparent
pear-shaped bag, its surface covered all over, but especially toward
the neck, with small glands set transversely. It is rounded behind,
where it is entered by a very long and slender membraneous tube,
which, after many turns and windings, gradually thickening and
becoming more evidently glandular, terminates in a blind end.

This is the apparatus for preparing and ejecting a powerful poison.
The glandular end of the slender tube is the secreting organ: here
the venom is prepared; the remainder of the tube is a duct for
conveying it to the bag, a reservoir in which it is stored for the
moment of use. By means of the neck it is thrown into the groove at
the moment the sting is projected, the same muscles, probably, that
dart forward the weapon compressing the poison-bag and causing it to
pour forth its contents into the groove, whence it passes on between
the two spears into the wound which they have made.

A modification of this apparatus is found throughout a very extensive
order of insects--the Hymenoptera; but in the majority of cases it
is not connected with purposes of warfare. Wherever it occurs it
is always confined to the female sex, or (as in the case of some
social insects) to the neuters, which are undeveloped females. When
it is not accompanied by a poison-reservoir it is ancillary to the
deposition of the eggs, and is hence called an ovipositor, though
in many cases it performs a part much more extensive than the mere
placing of the ova.

A very wide field of observation, and one easily cultivated, is
presented by the organs of sense in the insect races, and in
particular by those curious jointed threads which proceed from
the front or sides of the head, and which are technically called
antennæ. These may sometimes be confounded with the palpi; for in
a carnivorous beetle, for instance, both palpi and antennæ are
formed of a number of oblong, polished hard joints, set end to
end, like beads on a necklace. And it is probable there may be as
much community in the function as in the form of these two sets of
appendages; that both are the seats of some very delicate perceptive
faculty allied to touch, but of which we can not, from ignorance,
speak very definitely. It is likely, indeed, that sensations of a
very variable character are perceived by them, according to their
form, the degree of their development, and the habits of the species.
It is not impossible, judging from the very great diversity which we
find in the form and structure of these and similar organs in this
immense class of beings, compared with the uniformity that prevails
in the organs of sense bestowed on ourselves and other vertebrate
animals, that a far wider sphere of perception is open to them than
to us. Perhaps conditions that are appreciable to us only by the aid
of the most delicate instruments of modern science may be appreciable
to their acute faculties, and may govern their instincts and actions.
Among such we may mention, conjecturally, the comparative moisture
or dryness of the atmosphere, delicate changes in its temperature,
in its density, the presence of gaseous exhalations, the proximity
of solid bodies indicated by subtile vibrations of the air, the
height above the earth at which flight is performed, measured
barometrically, the various electrical conditions of the atmosphere;
and perhaps many other physical diversities which can not be
classed under sight, sound smell, taste, or touch, and which may be
altogether unappreciable, and therefore altogether inconceivable, by
us. It is probable, however, that the antennæ are the organs in which
the sense of _hearing_ is specially seated.

The forms which are assumed by the antennæ of insects are very
diverse; and I can bring before you only a very small selection out
of the mass. One of the most simple forms is that found in many
beetles, as in this Carabus, for example. Here each antennæ is
composed of eleven joints, almost exactly alike and symmetrical, each
joint a horny body of apparently a long oval shape, polished on the
surface, but not smooth, because covered with minute depressed lines,
and clothed with shaggy hair. There is, however, a slight illusion
in the appearance: it seems as if the dividing point of the joints
were, as I have just said, at the termination of the oval, but when
we look closely we see that the summit of each oval is, as it were,
cut off by a line, and by comparing the basal joints with the others,
we see that this line is the real division, that the summit of the
oval really forms the bottom of the succeeding joint, and that the
constricted part is no articulation at all. The first, or basal joint
(called the scapus), and the second (called the pedicella), differ in
form from the rest, here but slightly, but often considerably. The
whole of the remaining joints are together termed the clavola.

There is a very extensive family of beetles known as Lamellicornes,
because the antennal joints are singularly flattened and applied one
over the other like the leaves of a book (lamella, a leaf).

But this structure is seen to still greater advantage in the much
larger cockchafer, so abundant in May in some seasons. The insect
widely expands them, evidently to receive impressions from the
atmosphere; when alarmed, they are closed and withdrawn beneath the
shield of the head, but on the first essay toward escape, or any kind
of forward movement, the leaves are widely opened, and then, after
an instant’s pause to test the perceptions on the sensorium, away it
travels.

But much more curious and beautiful are the antennæ of many moths,
which often resemble feathers, particularly in the group Bombycina,
of which the silkworm is an example; and in the male sex, which
displays this structure more than the female.

This is the antenna of a large and handsome and not at all uncommon
moth--the oak egger (Lasiocampa quercus). It consists of about
seventy joints, so nearly alike in size and outline that the whole
forms an almost straight rod, slightly tapering to the tip. Each
joint, however, sends forth two long straight branches, so disposed
that the pair make a very acute angle, and the whole double series
of seventy on each side form a deep narrow groove. These two series
of branches, being perfectly regular and symmetrical, impart to the
antennæ the aspect of exquisite feathers.

It is, however, when we examine the elements of this structure in
detail, using moderately high powers of enlargement, that we are
struck with the elaborateness of the workmanship bestowed upon them.
Each of the lateral branches is a straight rod, thick at its origin,
whence it tapers to a little beyond its middle, and then thickens
again to its tip. Here two horny spines project from it obliquely,
one much stouter than the other, at such an angle as nearly to touch
the tip of the succeeding branch.

Besides this, each branch is surrounded throughout its length
with a series of short stiff bristles, very close-set, projecting
horizontally (to the plane of the axis of the branch), and bent
upward at the end candelabrum-fashion. The mode in which they are
arranged is in a short spiral, which makes about forty-five whorls
or turns about the axis; at least in the branches which are situated
about the middle of the antennæ; for these diminish in length toward
the extremity, bringing the feather to a rather abrupt point.

The entire surface of the branch gleams under reflected light with
metallic hues, chiefly yellows and bronzy greens; which appear to
depend on very minute and closely applied scales that overlap each
other. The main stem of the feather--that is, the primary rod or
axis--is somewhat sparsely clothed with scales of another kind, thin,
oblong, flat plates, notched at the end, and very slightly attached
by means of a minute stem at the base--the common clothing scales of
the Lepidoptera.

We may acquire some glimpse of a notion why this remarkable
development of antennæ is bestowed upon the male sex of this moth
by an acquaintance with its habits. It has been long a practice
with entomologists, when they have reared a female moth from the
chrysalis, to avail themselves of the instincts of the species to
capture the male. This sex has an extraordinary power of discovering
the female at immense distances, and though perfectly concealed;
and will crowd toward her from all quarters, entering into houses,
beating at windows, and even descending chimneys, to come at the dear
object of their solicitude. Collectors call this mode of procuring
the male “sembling,” that is “assembling,” because the insects of
the sex assemble at one point. It can not be practiced with all
insects, nor even with all moths; those of this family, Bombycidæ,
are in general available; and of these, none is more celebrated for
the habit than the oak egger. The very individual whose antenna has
furnished us with this observation was taken in this way; for having
bred a female of this species, one evening I put her into a basket in
my parlor. One male, the same evening, came dashing into the kitchen;
but the next day, soon after noon, in the hot sunshine of August, no
fewer than four more males came rapidly in succession to the parlor
window, which was a little open, and, after beating about the panes a
few minutes, found their way in, and made straightway for the basket,
totally regardless of their own liberty.

It must be manifest to you that some extraordinary sense is bestowed
upon these moths, or else some ordinary and well-known sense in
extraordinary development. It may be smell; it may be hearing; but
neither odor nor sound, perceptible by our dull faculties, is given
forth by the females; the emanation is far too subtile to produce any
vibrations on our sensorium, and yet sufficiently potent, and widely
diffused, to call these males from their distant retreats in the
hedges and woods.

The male gnat presents in its antennæ a pair of plumes of equal
beauty, but of a totally different character. The pattern here is one
of exceeding lightness and grace.

In the tribe of two-winged insects, which we term, _par excellence_,
flies (Muscadæ), the antennæ are of peculiar structure. The common
house-fly shall give us a good example. Here, in front of the head,
is a shell-like concavity, divided into two by a central ridge. Just
at the summit of this projection are the two antennæ, originating
close together, and diverging as they proceed. Each antenna consists
of three joints, of which the first is very minute, the second is
a reversed cone, and the third, which is large, thick, and ovate,
is bent abruptly downward immediately in front of the concavity.
From the upper part of this third joint projects obliquely a stiff
bristle or style, which tapers to a fine point. It is densely hairy
throughout; and is more beset with longer hairs on two opposite
sides, which decrease regularly in length from the base, making a
wide and pointed plume.

Such are a few examples of what are presumed to be the _ears_ of
insects; let us now turn our attention to their _eyes_. And we can
scarcely select a more brilliant, or a larger example, than is
presented by this fine dragon-fly (Æshna), which I just now caught
as it was hawking to and fro in my garden. How gorgeously beautiful
are these two great hemispheres that almost compose the head, each
shining with a soft satiny lustre of azure hue, surrounded by
olive-green, and marked with undefined black spots, which change
their place as you move the insect round!

Each of these hemispheres is a compound eye. I put the insect in the
stage-forceps, and bring a low power to bear upon it with reflected
light. You see an infinite number of hexagons, of the most accurate
symmetry and regularity of arrangement. Into those which are in the
centre of the field of view, the eye can penetrate far down, and you
perceive that they are tubes; of those which recede from the centre,
you discern more and more of the sides; while, by delicate adjustment
of the focus, you can see that each tube is not open, but is covered
with a convex arch of some glassy medium polished and transparent
as crystal. There are, according to the computations of accurate
naturalists, not fewer than 24,000 of these convex lenses in the two
eyes of such a large species of dragon-fly as this. Every one of
these 24,000 bodies represents a perfect eye; every one is furnished
with all the apparatus and combinations requisite for distinct
vision; and there is no doubt that the dragon-fly looks through
them all. In order to explain this, I must enter into a little
technical explanation of the anatomy of the organs, as they have been
demonstrated by careful dissection.

The glassy convex plate or facet in front of each hexagon is a
cornea, or corneule, as it has been called. Behind each cornea,
instead of a crystalline lens, there descends a slender transparent
pyramid, whose base is the cornea, and whose apex points toward the
interior, where it is received and embraced by a translucent cup,
answering to the vitreous humor. This, in its turn, is surrounded by
another cup, formed by the expansion of a nervous filament arising
from the ganglion on the extremity of the optic nerve, a short
distance from the brain. Each lens-like pyramid, with its vitreous
cup and nervous filament, is completely surrounded and isolated by
a coat (the choroid) of dark pigment, except that there is a minute
orifice or pupil behind the cornea, where the rays of light enter
the pyramid, and one at the apex of the latter, where they reach the
fibres of the optic nerve.

Each cornea is a lens with a perfect magnifying power. The focus of
each cornea has been ascertained by similar experiments to be exactly
equal to the length of the pyramid behind it, so that the image
produced by the rays of light proceeding from any external object,
and refracted by the convex cornea, will fall accurately upon the
sensitive termination of the optic nerve-filament placed there to
receive it.

The rays which pass through the several pyramids are prevented from
mingling with each other by the isolating sheath of dark pigment; and
no rays except those which pass along the axis of each pyramid can
reach the optic nerve; all the rest being absorbed in the pigment of
the sides. Hence it is evident that as no two corneæ on the rounded
surface of the compound eye can have the same axis, no two can
transmit a ray of light from the very same point of any object looked
at; while, as each of the composite eyes is immovable, except as the
whole head moves, the combined action of the whole 24,000 lenses
can present to the sensorium but the idea of a single, undistorted,
unconfused object, probably on somewhat of the same principle by
which the convergence of the rays of light entering our two eyes
gives us but a single stereoscopic picture.

The soft blue color of this dragon-fly’s eyes--as also the rich
golden reflections seen on the eyes of other insects, as the
whameflies, and many other Diptera--is not produced by the pigment
which I have alluded to, but is a prismatic reflection from the
corneæ.

You would suppose that, having 24,000 eyes, the dragon-fly was pretty
well furnished with organs of vision and surely would need no more;
but you would be mistaken. It has three other eyes of quite another
character.

If you look at the commissure or line of junction of the two compound
eyes on the summit of the head, you will see just in front of the
point where they separate and their front outlines diverge a minute
crescent-shaped cushion of a pale-green color, at each angle of which
is a minute antenna. Close to the base of each antenna there is set,
in the black skin of the head that divides the green crescent from
the compound eyes, a globose polished knob of crystal-like substance,
much like the “bull’s-eyes” or hemispheres of solid glass that are
set in a ship’s deck to enlighten the side-cabins. On the front side
of the crescentic cushion there is a third similar glassy sphere, but
much larger than the two lateral ones. What are these three spherules?

They are eyes, in no important respect differing from the individuals
which compose the compound masses except that they are isolated. The
shining glassy hemisphere is a cornea of hard transparent substance,
behind which is situated a spherical lens, lodged in a kind of cup
formed by an expansion of the optic nerve, and which is surrounded
by a colored pigment-layer. You may study these simple eyes, or
stemmata, as they are called, in many other insects, though they are
not so universally present as the compound eyes. On the forehead of
the honey-bee they are well seen, as three black shining globules,
placed, as in the dragon-fly, in a triangle.




  FAIRY FLIES
  --FRED. ENOCK


If it were possible to obtain a reply from all living naturalists
as to what first attracted their attention to insect life, I
venture to think that seventy-five per cent or more of the replies
would be: “The first sight of a living butterfly.” How many of us
(no matter what our specialty may now be) can look back to that
time when, perhaps, a tortoise-shell flaunted its beauty before
our youthful eyes, and we were drawn to it and fascinated by its
gorgeous color, as it delicately sipped the nectar from a dandelion
or thistle, gently opening and shutting its wings, spreading them as
wide as possible so that every part should be seen! The colors and
markings flashed before our enraptured gaze, and while we were held
captive by its beauty, another still more beautiful butterfly--the
peacock--sailed past and alighted close to the first, riveting our
attention by the marvelously lovely “eyes” on its wings; and again
another--this time a red admiral--in full sail bore down upon us,
opened fire, and we surrendered, swearing allegiance for evermore
to Atalanta and all her crew. Few boys could stand still and not be
affected or influenced by such beauty. Such then has been, and will
be, the foundation of our naturalists--“butterfly hunters” first,
specialists later on.

As we are briefly running through the Hymenoptera our difficulties
seem to increase, for with the next division, the Chalcididæ, we
hardly know what to do, or to whom we can turn for assistance in
naming these brilliantly spangled green and gold colored flies, whose
“name is legion.” The laborers in this field are indeed few, so much
so that there is not a “specialist” even at the Natural History
Museum, South Kensington.

Let us go back to one of those “neglected families” which have
received but small attention. One reason for this want of attention
is, no doubt, because of the extreme smallness of the members of
this family, the largest being not more than one-twentieth of an
inch long, whereas the smallest is less than one-eighty-fifth of an
inch from head to tail. These insect atoms have been classed among
the Chalcididæ by Haliday--the originator of the Mymaridæ--who
first noticed them in 1833. Since that date Westwood has placed
them among the Proctotrupidæ; and now Ashmead--author of American
Proctotripidæ--has decided in favor of Haliday’s arrangement, and in
this I fully concur.

The fairy flies are, without doubt, among the many wonderful
parasitic Hymenoptera, the most admirable in their exquisite
structure, as well as in their habits and economy. All the species
are egg parasites, and each species has its peculiar taste, selecting
with unerring instinct the right kind of egg--generally that of an
injurious insect--in which the female lays one of its own eggs, which
in due time hatches or develops into an active maggot. This maggot
feeds upon the contained fluids, and finds sufficient nutriment
to bring it to full size, when it assumes the pupal stage. The
fly, being matured, bites out a round piece of the eggshell large
enough to allow it to escape. The most noticeable character in the
fairy flies is the transverse line across the face a little above
the insertion of the antennæ. The wings are devoid of all wing
nerves, for the sub-costal is so short and stumpy that the wing
looks perfectly free. Both the upper and under surfaces of the wings
are covered with minute hairs, and the margins of both wings are
surrounded by long hair-like ciliæ.

Owing to the kindness of the authorities of Dublin Museum, I have
been permitted to make a most exhaustive and critical examination of
Haliday’s type collection of British Mymaridæ, and though the hand
of time and those of others have materially interfered with their
original arrangement, the result has been most satisfactory to me.
Although one or two of the most interesting types are absent, I have
been enabled to re-establish Haliday’s genus Panthus, which certain
compilers had, for no apparent reason, ignored. I found two specimens
still bearing the old labels, and after long and critical microscopic
examination I saw that both were distinct from any others. I applied
for and obtained permission to remove the carded specimens, and
remount them in Canada balsam. This was successfully done, and on
making a photo-micrograph the peculiar generic characters were
brought out most distinctly. Some naturalists appear to imagine that
a pocket lens will be sufficient to identify these species, but in
an insect which is but a fiftieth or an eightieth of an inch long
it is of absolute importance that every joint and detail should be
examined under the microscope, and the relative proportion of each
joint of the antennæ be compared with closely allied species--just
as they are with all large Hymenoptera. The curve, too, of the
delicate wings is a most important feature which must not be hurried
over. This point leads me to speak of the immense superiority of
photo-micrographs over drawings of these fairy flies. No matter how
exact an enthusiastic naturalist may be in his endeavors, it is
a physical impossibility for any one to follow out and reproduce
the exact curve of these microscopic wings; and as the flies when
properly prepared and “set” in Canada balsam lend themselves
peculiarly to photo-micrography, it is wise to take advantage of
this. The details can afterward be drawn to a much larger scale. It
is my intention to do this with every species which I have collected
during the past twenty-five years, and of which I have a very large
number, far exceeding those known to science. The illustrations
accompanying this short article will, I think, show what exceedingly
good subjects the fairy flies are for photo-micrographs.

Since Haliday’s arrangement of the British Mymaridæ, elucidated
by Francis Walker, no new species have been recorded, the genera
numbering eleven, the species, thirty-five, as follows, viz.:

  _Ooctonus_, four species
  _Gonatocerus_, five species
  _Alaptus_, two species
  _Litus_, one species
  _Eustochus_, one species
  _Mymar_, one species
  _Cosmocoma_, eight species
  _Caraphractus_, one species
  _Anaphes_, seven species
  _Anagrus_, four species
  _Camptoptera_, one species

Of these I have found representatives of all, and a few notes may not
be uninteresting to those who desire to search for these fairy flies.

Ooctonus. Of this genus I have not found very many specimens. It is
thick-set, and least like a fairy. Unfortunately, Haliday did not
publish any detailed account of his captures, but from the fact of
his naming one (plentifully represented in his collection) Ooctonus
hemipterus, it is just possible it may be parasitic in eggs of bugs.

Gonatocerus is, perhaps, as plentiful as any in the London district.
It is a constant visitor to my garden, though I have failed to
discover its nidus.

Alaptus minimus and fusculus have long been known to me. The
first-named is not more than one-seventy-second of an inch long,
with a sessile abdomen. Its wings are somewhat hatchet shaped, with
peculiar enlargements at the base of the inner margin. The lower
wings have a crimped appearance, arising from the mackerel marking.
This, and in fact all the family, are to be found running up the
glass in a greenhouse, especially on the window facing east. Alaptus
fusculus is one of the first to appear in spring--its peculiar jerky
gait will at once reveal its identity. Of this species I have bred
hundreds from the eggs of a psocid (Stenopscocus cruciatus), an
insect much like a common aphis, but very active and shy, having
a decided objection to being watched. But “all good things come
to those who know how to wait,” and wait he must for hours, days,
months, and years before the life history of a single species is made
out. Haliday mentions that Polynema (Cosmocoma) destroys the eggs
of the cabbage butterfly. I read this twenty-five years ago, but I
have never yet found one egg “struck.” Stenopscocus lays its eggs on
the leaves of various shrubs and trees. I have found them on lime,
oak, sycamore, hawthorn, and ivy. They are laid in patches of ten to
twenty, the female psocid carefully weaving a silken covering in an
endeavor to protect them from the attacks of enemies; but, alas! who
would imagine a fairy fly to be an enemy? Yet its microscopic size
enables it to pass unnoticed, and also permits its passing beneath
the silken screen, and, once there, woe betide the psocid’s eggs!
for the busy fairy taps one with her clubbed antennæ, mounts to
the summit, and then lets down the ovipositor until the barbed tip
touches the surface of the fresh-laid egg (it must be fresh). Now by
carefully focusing a good magnifier, we can observe the fairy taking
a firm hold of the surface of the egg with the two curved tips of
each of her exquisitely formed toes! Next we note that pressure is
being put upon the barbed ovipositor. The antennæ are pressed firmly
to the surface, and impress the observer with the fact that some very
serious business is in hand. Eleven minutes have passed without any
sign of a move, when just after eleven and a quarter the ovipositor
positively bumps through the shell. There is another serious pause,
and then up go the clubbed antennæ, and very carefully the ovipositor
is withdrawn until it slips back between the sheaths. The fairy
turns round, and with saliva from her mouth seals up the incision.
Another egg is ascended, bored, and stored with an egg--and so on
until the whole batch of twenty has been struck, and all chance of
any psocid emerging utterly ruined. I kept the first batch of eggs
which I had seen struck in October until the following year, when,
as the warm days of April arrived, I carefully examined them, until
one eventful day I observed one of the eggs had a tiny hole in it.
On placing it under the microscope I saw a pair of mandibles busily
at work nibbling away the eggshell, until at last the hole was large
enough to admit of the head being thrust through. After many efforts
the antennæ were freed, followed by the first pair of legs; then,
with this additional leverage at command, the thorax was lifted out,
the second pair of legs and part of the wings following, and after
much apparently painful effort the third and last pair of legs was
withdrawn, enabling the fairy to walk out, and to free those most
exquisitely delicate wings without a hitch. Now, taking a firm grip
on the empty eggshell, the fairy went through her toilet. Not a hair
or spine escaped attention--each and every part of this microscopic
marvel received the utmost attention; every hair forming the lovely
marginal fringe was brushed out and arranged in exact order. The
wings were raised several times to try them, and then away this atom
of perfection flew. Since my first seeing the ovipositor of a fairy
fly I have dissected many struck eggs, and in less than a minute had
the germ (laid by the fairy fly) under my microscope, and watched it
grow, and the cells divide again and again in such a marvelous manner
that I have been lost in wonderment or simply overcome. Flesh and
blood is not strong enough to carry on such watchings too long, but
the fascination is so great that time after time have I watched the
mysterious changes taking place--various organs being formed under
my eyes--the active larva gradually losing all its activity until
it appears in pupal form, and then new limbs and organs seem to be
evolved from nothing at all.

The next genus, Litus, is a peculiar one. Its one representative,
Litus cynipseus, much resembles a flea in color and form. It is the
only fairy fly that takes its time in walking. I have never seen it
in a hurry, neither have I ever seen the male--and the female is not
a plentiful species.

Eustochus is distinguished by having a deeply marked suture across
the club of the antennæ, and though Haliday mentions but one species,
I have found over a dozen; in fact, of this genus I can always find
specimens anywhere--on windows, in greenhouses, in railway carriages,
besides sweeping them up from grass and all kinds of herbage. I have
also seen and caught them flying, and have obtained many specimens
from spiders’ webs.

Mymar pulchellus is, without doubt, the most extraordinary of the
whole family. My first specimen I caught in a spider’s web when
living near Finsbury Park. It was very much held by viscid globules,
but after many hours’ work appeared in Canada balsam a splendid
mount. No insect has exercised my power of thought more than this
one; but its life history remains a mystery still, though I imagine
I am within measurable distance of discovering its nidus. The
posterior wings are abnormal--mere bristles--and yet they are of
immense service when hooked into the anterior ones, the black specks
just before the tips of these bristle-like wings being the three
hooklets.

The next representative, Cosmocoma, is Haliday’s Polynema, which, he
states, affects the eggs of the cabbage butterfly. C. fumipennis is
of the most strikingly beautiful character. I once saw the male of
this, but it was on the glass outside the greenhouse, while I was
inside and the door was locked. My feelings at that moment can be
better imagined than described.

Caraphractus cinctus has received a good deal of attention and
notoriety from the fact that in 1862 Sir John Lubbock discovered that
it was aquatic in its habits, using its wings for swimming under
water. It was christened Polynema natans by the worthy discoverer of
its natatorial habits; but in 1896 it fell to my lot to prove it to
be identical with Haliday’s Caraphractus.

Anaphes is found in almost any garden, and is frequently confounded
with Eustochus, but the solid club is an unfailing character. It is
also somewhat larger than Eustochus.

Anagrus contains many species of very delicate yellow fairy
flies, always present in gardens and about ponds--in fact, almost
everywhere. I have been again fortunate in discovering the life
history of several species belonging to this genus. One is parasitic
in eggs of dragon-flies, and three others in different kinds of eggs
of frog-hoppers, which have for over thirty years eluded my search.

One more genus remains to be noticed, and it is the most fairy-like
of all the Mymaridæ, viz., Camptoptera papaveris. It is the smallest
of the family, the female being but one-eighty-fifth of an inch long.
Mystery surrounds this gem, and yet it is most plentiful in certain
localities. The male, of which I have only taken two specimens,
measures just one-ninety-second of an inch from head to tail, and yet
is absolutely perfect in every part.




  INSECT TRANSFORMATIONS
  --ANDREW WILSON


Most people are aware, as a piece of commonplace knowledge, that many
animals, before arriving at their mature or adult state, undergo a
series of changes in form, of a more or less complete character.
To such a series of changes the naturalist applies the term
“metamorphosis”; and the study of the disguises which an animal may
in this way successively assume forms one of the most interesting and
fascinating subjects that can attract the notice of the observer.

The great insect-class presents us with the most familiar examples of
these changes, and the butterflies and moths exemplify metamorphosis
in its most typical aspect. Thus we know that from the egg of the
butterfly, deposited by the short-lived parent upon the leaves of
plants, a crawling grub-like creature is first developed. This form
we name the “larva” or “caterpillar”; and if we might fail to
recognize its relationship to the bright denizen of the air as far
as outward appearance is concerned, we might also be at a loss to
reconcile its internal structure with that of the perfect butterfly.
Thus the latter is winged; possesses a mouth and digestive system,
adapted for the reception and assimilation of flower-juices; and
wholly differs in structure and habits from its worm-like progeny.
The caterpillar is provided with a mouth furnished with jaws, and
adapted for biting or mastication; its digestive system presents
a type differing widely from that of the perfect form; and its
crawling, terrestrial habits appear in strong contrast to the light
and ethereal movements of its parent.

The life of this larva may be accurately described as one devoted
solely to its nourishment. Its entire existence, while in the
caterpillar state, is one long process of continuous eating and
devouring. By means of its jaws it nips and destroys the young leaves
of plants, much to the gardener’s annoyance; and so rapidly does
its body increase in size, that the first skin with which its body
is provided soon cracks and bursts like a tight-fitting coat, and a
process of moulting ensues. As the result of this process the larva
emerges, clad in a new skin, adapted to the increased size of its
body. This second skin may similarly become inadequate to accommodate
its ever-increasing growth, and a second process of moulting produces
in turn a new investment. In this way the caterpillar may change
its coat many times--twenty-one moultings have been counted in the
development of the Mayflies--and on arriving at the close of its
larval stage of existence, may present a very great increase in
size, as compared with the dimensions it presented at the beginning
of its life.

But, sooner or later, the caterpillar appears to sicken, and to
become quiescent. Its former state of activity is exchanged for one
of lethargy, from which it awakes to begin an operation of a novel
and different nature from that in which it has been previously
engaged. It begins to spin a delicate silky thread by means of a
special apparatus, situated in the head, and which consists of
silk-glands and of an organ named the “spinneret.” Within the silken
case or “cocoon” which it thus constructs with the thread of the
spinneret, the caterpillar-body is soon inclosed; the first stage of
its existence comes to an end; and the second or cocoon stage, marked
by outward quiescence and apparent rest, becomes known to us as that
of the “pupa,” “chrysalis,” or “nymph.”

Although outwardly still, and although all the former activity
appears to have been exchanged for a state of dull repose, changes
of active kind, and of marvelous extent, are meanwhile proceeding
within the cocoon or pupa-case. The elements of the caterpillar’s
form are being gradually disintegrated or broken down, and built
up anew in the form and image of the adult butterfly. Old textures
and garments are being exchanged for new ones; particle by particle
the outward and inward structures of the larva are being replaced
by others proper to the mature being; and in due course, and after
a longer or shorter period, the cocoon is ruptured, and the perfect
form emerges--a bright and beautiful creature, furnished with wings
and active senses, and rejoicing in the exercise of its new-born
functions amid the sunlight and the flowers.

Such is an outline of the familiar process by which the larva or
caterpillar of the butterfly becomes transformed or developed, to
form the “imago” or perfect and adult form. And if we review the
stages exemplified in the process, we shall be able to detect in
each an obvious harmony and correspondence both with the preceding
and with the succeeding stage. Thus we find that the life of the
perfect and mature insect is at the best of a comparatively short
and transient nature, and its energies are directed chiefly to
reproduction--to the deposition of eggs, from which new individuals
will, in due course, be reproduced. The larval stage, on the
contrary, is devoted to nutrition; to the laying up, as it were, of
a store of nourishment, sufficient to last throughout the lifetime
of the being, and to sustain it while its adult functions are being
performed.

Indeed, the entire lifetime of the higher insect may be divided into,
or comprised within, two distinct periods. The first of these latter
is the nutritive period, represented by the caterpillar-state, when
the nutrition of the body is mainly provided for; and the second
period, no less defined than the first, is included in the life of
the perfect form, which is devoted to reproducing the species. This
last we might therefore term the reproductive period of insect-life.

All insects, however, do not exemplify “metamorphosis” in so perfect
a manner as does the butterfly. The beetles, flies, bees, etc., and
many other insects, undergo a process of metamorphosis essentially
resembling that of the butterfly; the characteristic feature of
this form of development being that while the caterpillar stage
is passed in activity, the pupa or chrysalis is quiescent; and
from this resting-pupa the active, winged insect comes forth. The
dragon-flies, crickets, grasshoppers, and their allies, undergo, on
the other hand, a less perfect series of changes than the foregoing
insects. The young grasshopper, on leaving the egg, bears first
a close resemblance to the perfect insect. It is, further, not
of worm-like conformation, and in these two points differs from
the larva of the other forms. Then, thirdly, it does not inclose
itself in a cocoon-case, but passes its chrysalis stage in a free
and active condition. In this respect it again differs from the
butterfly chrysalis; and its perfect form is attained simply by the
development of the wings. So that, in reality, the chief difference
between the young and the perfect form of the grasshopper consists
in the non-development in the former of the wings, which are thus
characteristic of the adult form.

The dragon-flies illustrate an essentially similar kind of
metamorphosis, but also exemplify differences in the details of
their development. The young of the dragon-fly are active creatures,
inhabiting the water of pools; the eggs from which they are produced
having been deposited by the parent in bunches on the leaves of
water-plants. The larvæ are of brownish color, and possess six legs,
and a peculiar apparatus of jaws, consisting of a pair of nippers
attached to a movable, rod-like stem. This apparatus can be folded
upon the head, when it gives to the larva the appearance of being
masked, and hence the name of “mask” which has been applied to this
structure. But on the approach of some unwary insect, the jaws can
be rapidly extended to seize the unfortunate victim, and convey it
to the mouth of its captor. The dragon-fly’s young are thus purely
aquatic in habits, and propel themselves along by ejecting water,
which has been used in breathing, from the posterior extremity of the
body.

Having arrived at the close of its chrysalis-stage of
development--the chrysalis differing from the larva simply in its
greater size, and in the development of the wings and perfect body
within the pupa-skin--the insect at length fixes its body to some
water-plant. The pupa-skin next splits along the back, and the
mature, winged insect slowly emerges therefrom. The crumpled wings
soon dry, and acquire their normal consistence; and the dragon-fly,
freed from the trammels of a mundane existence, mounts into the air,
and “revels in the freedom of luxury and light.” Tennyson has aptly
described this change in his lines:

      To-day I saw the dragon-fly
      Come from the wells where he did lie.

      An inner impulse rent the veil
      Of his old husk: from head to tail
      Came out clear plates of sapphire mail.

      He dried his wings: like gauze they grew:
      Thro’ crofts and pastures wet with dew
      A living flash of light he flew.

In these latter instances, as in the case of the butterfly, the
nutrition of the insects has been proceeding during the earlier
stages of life, and has been fitting them for entering upon the
final part of their existence, which may extend for a longer or
shorter period, but which is mainly devoted to the continuation of
the species. The time occupied in the development of insects varies
greatly in different groups. Cold and damp appear to delay this
process. The chrysalis of a butterfly has been kept for two years
in an icehouse, without undergoing development; while on removal
to a warm place it became transformed into the winged insect. The
cockchafer occupies three years in its development, the duration of
life in its perfect state being probably only a single year.




  STRUGGLE FOR EXISTENCE
  --CHARLES DARWIN


Among organic beings in a state of nature there is some individual
variability: indeed I am not aware that this has ever been disputed.
It is immaterial for us whether a multitude of doubtful forms be
called species or sub-species or varieties; what rank, for instance,
the two or three hundred doubtful forms of British plants are
entitled to hold, if the existence of any well-marked varieties be
admitted. But the mere existence of individual variability and of
some few well-marked varieties, though necessary as the foundation
for the work, helps us but little in understanding how species arise
in nature. How have all those exquisite adaptations of one part of
the organization to another part, and to the conditions of life,
and of one organic being to another being, been perfected? We see
these beautiful co-adaptations most plainly in the woodpecker and the
mistletoe; and only a little less plainly in the humblest parasite
which clings to the hairs of a quadruped or feathers of a bird; in
the structure of the beetle which dives through the water; in the
plumed seed which is wafted by the gentlest breeze; in short, we see
beautiful adaptations everywhere and in every part of the organic
world.

Again, it may be asked, how is it that varieties, which I have
called incipient species, become ultimately converted into good and
distinct species, which in most cases obviously differ from each
other far more than do the varieties of the same species? How do
those groups of species which constitute what are called distinct
genera, and which differ from each other more than do the species of
the same genus, arise? All these results follow from the struggle for
life. Owing to this struggle, variations, however slight and from
whatever cause proceeding, if they be in any degree profitable to
the individuals of a species, in their infinitely complex relations
to other organic beings and to their physical conditions of life,
will tend to the preservation of such individuals, and will generally
be inherited by the offspring. The offspring, also, will thus have
a better chance of surviving, for, of the many individuals of any
species which are periodically born, but a small number can survive.
I have called this principle, by which each slight variation, if
useful, is preserved, by the term Natural Selection, in order to mark
its relation to man’s power of selection. But the expression often
used by Mr. Herbert Spencer of the Survival of the Fittest is more
accurate, and is sometimes equally convenient.

The elder De Candolle and Lyell have largely and philosophically
shown that all organic beings are exposed to severe competition. In
regard to plants, no one has treated this subject with more spirit
and ability than W. Herbert, Dean of Manchester, evidently the result
of his great horticultural knowledge. Nothing is easier than to
admit in words the truth of the universal struggle for life, or more
difficult--at least I have found it so--than constantly to bear this
conclusion in mind. Yet unless it be thoroughly ingrained in the
mind, the whole economy of nature, with every fact on distribution,
rarity, abundance, extinction, and variation, will be dimly seen
or quite misunderstood. We behold the face of nature bright with
gladness, we often see superabundance of food; we do not see or
we forget that the birds which are idly singing round us mostly
live on insects or seeds, and are thus constantly destroying life;
or we forget how largely these songsters, or their eggs, or their
nestlings, are destroyed by birds and beasts of prey; we do not
always bear in mind that, though food may be now superabundant, it is
not so at all seasons of each recurring year.

I should premise that I use this term Struggle for Existence in a
large and metaphorical sense, including dependence of one being on
another, and including (which is more important) not only the life of
the individual, but success in leaving progeny. Two canine animals,
in a time of dearth, may be truly said to struggle with each other
which shall get food and live. But a plant on the edge of a desert is
said to struggle for life against the drought, though more properly
it should be said to be dependent on the moisture. A plant which
annually produces a thousand seeds, of which only one on an average
comes to maturity, may be more truly said to struggle with the
plants of the same and other kinds which already clothe the ground.
The mistletoe is dependent on the apple and a few other trees, but
can only in a far-fetched sense be said to struggle with these
trees, for, if too many of these parasites grow on the same tree, it
languishes and dies. But several seedling mistletoes, growing close
together on the same branch, may more truly be said to struggle with
each other. As the mistletoe is disseminated by birds, its existence
depends on them; and it may metaphorically be said to struggle with
other fruit-bearing plants, in tempting the birds to devour and thus
disseminate its seeds. In these several senses, which pass into each
other, I use for convenience’ sake the general term of Struggle for
Existence.

A struggle for existence inevitably follows from the high rate at
which all organic beings tend to increase. Every being, which during
its natural lifetime produces several eggs or seeds, must suffer
destruction during some period of its life, and during some season
or occasional year, otherwise, on the principle of geometrical
increase, its numbers would quickly become so inordinately great that
no country could support the product. Hence, as more individuals
are produced than can possibly survive, there must in every case be
a struggle for existence, either one individual with another of the
same species, or with the individuals of distinct species.

There is no exception to the rule that every organic being naturally
increases at so high a rate that, if not destroyed, the earth would
soon be covered by the progeny of a single pair. Even slow-breeding
man has doubled in twenty-five years, and at this rate, in less than
a thousand years, there would literally not be standing-room for his
progeny. Linnæus has calculated that if an annual plant produced
only two seeds--and there is no plant so unproductive as this--and
their seedlings next year produced two, and so on, then in twenty
years there would be a million plants. The elephant is reckoned the
slowest breeder of all known animals, and I have taken some pains to
estimate its probable minimum rate of natural increase; it will be
safest to assume that it begins breeding when thirty years old, and
goes on breeding till ninety years old, bringing forth six young in
the interval, and surviving till one hundred years old; if this be
so, after a period of from 740 to 750 years there would be nearly
nineteen million elephants alive, descended from the first pair.

But we have better evidence on this subject than mere theoretical
calculations; namely, the numerous recorded cases of the
astonishingly rapid increase of various animals in a state of
nature, when circumstances have been favorable to them during two or
three following seasons. Still more striking is the evidence from
our domestic animals of many kinds which have run wild in several
parts of the world; if the statements of the rate of increase of
slow-breeding cattle and horses in South America, and latterly in
Australia, had not been well authenticated, they would have been
incredible. So it is with plants; cases could be given of introduced
plants which have become common throughout whole islands in a period
of less than ten years. In such cases, and endless others could
be given, no one supposes that the fertility of the animals or
plants has been suddenly and temporarily increased in any sensible
degree. The obvious explanation is that the conditions of life have
been highly favorable, and that there has consequently been less
destruction of the old and young, and that nearly all the young have
been enabled to breed. Their geometrical ratio of increase, the
result of which never fails to be surprising, simply explains their
extraordinarily rapid increase and wide diffusion in their new homes.

In a state of nature almost every full-grown plant annually produces
seed, and among animals there are very few which do not annually
pair. Hence we may confidently assert that all plants and animals are
tending to increase at a geometrical ratio--that all would rapidly
stock every station in which they could anyhow exist--and that this
geometrical tendency to increase must be checked by destruction at
some period of life. Our familiarity with the larger domestic animals
tends, I think, to mislead us: we see no great destruction falling
on them, but we do not keep in mind that thousands are annually
slaughtered for food, and that in a state of nature an equal number
would have somehow to be disposed of.

The only difference between organisms which annually produce eggs or
seeds by the thousand, and those which produce extremely few, is,
that the slow-breeders would require a few more years to people,
under favorable conditions, a whole district, let it be ever so
large. The condor lays a couple of eggs and the ostrich a score, and
yet in the same country the condor may be the more numerous of the
two; the Fulmar petrel lays but one egg, yet it is believed to be the
most numerous bird in the world. One fly deposits hundreds of eggs,
and another, like the hippobosca, a single one; but this difference
does not determine how many individuals of the two species can be
supported in a district. A large number of eggs is of some importance
to those species which depend on a fluctuating amount of food, for it
allows them rapidly to increase in number. But the real importance of
a large number of eggs or seeds is to make up for much destruction at
some period of life; and this period in the great majority of cases
is an early one. If an animal can in any way protect its own eggs or
young, a small number may be produced, and yet the average stock be
fully kept up; but if many eggs or young are destroyed, many must
be produced, or the species will become extinct. It would suffice
to keep up the full number of a tree, which lived on an average for
a thousand years, if a single seed were produced once in a thousand
years, supposing that this seed were never destroyed, and could be
insured to germinate in a fitting place. So that, in all cases, the
average number of any animal or plant depends only indirectly on the
number of its eggs or seeds.

In looking at Nature, it is most necessary to keep the foregoing
considerations always in mind--never to forget that every single
organic being may be said to be striving to the utmost to increase
in numbers; that each lives by a struggle at some period of its
life; that heavy destruction inevitably falls either on the young or
old, during each generation or at recurrent intervals. Lighten any
check, mitigate the destruction ever so little, and the number of the
species will almost instantaneously increase to any amount.

The causes which check the natural tendency of each species to
increase are most obscure. Look at the most vigorous species; by as
much as it swarms in numbers, by so much will it tend to increase
still further. We know not exactly what the checks are even in a
single instance. Nor will this surprise any one who reflects how
ignorant we are on this head, even in regard to mankind, although so
incomparably better known than any other animal. Eggs or very young
animals seem generally to suffer most, but this is not invariably the
case. With plants there is a vast destruction of seeds, but, from
some observations which I have made, it appears that the seedlings
suffer most from germinating in ground already thickly stocked with
other plants. Seedlings, also, are destroyed in vast numbers by
various enemies; for instance, on a piece of ground three feet long
and two wide, dug and cleared, and where there could be no choking
from other plants, I marked all the seedlings of our native weeds as
they came up, and out of 357 no less than 295 were destroyed, chiefly
by slugs and insects. If turf which has long been mown, and the case
would be the same with turf closely browsed by quadrupeds, be let
grow, the more vigorous plants gradually kill the less vigorous,
though fully grown plants; thus out of twenty species growing on a
little plot of mown turf (three feet by four) nine species perished,
from the other species being allowed to grow up freely.

The amount of food for each species of course gives the extreme
limit to which each can increase; but very frequently it is not the
obtaining food; but the serving as prey to other animals, which
determines the average numbers of species. Thus, there seems to be
little doubt that the stock of partridges, grouse, and hares on any
large estate depends chiefly on the destruction of vermin. If not
one head of game were shot during the next twenty years in England,
and, at the same time, if no vermin were destroyed, there would, in
all probability, be less game than at present, although hundreds of
thousands of game animals are now annually shot. On the other hand,
in some cases, as with the elephant, none is destroyed by beasts of
prey; for even the tiger in India most rarely dares to attack a young
elephant protected by its dam.

Climate plays an important part in determining the average numbers
of a species, and periodical seasons of extreme cold or drought
seem to be the most effective of all checks. I estimated (chiefly
from the greatly reduced numbers of nests in the spring) that the
winter of 1854-55 destroyed four-fifths of the birds in my own
grounds; and this is a tremendous destruction, when we remember that
ten per cent is an extraordinarily severe mortality from epidemics
with man. The action of climate seems at first sight to be quite
independent of the struggle for existence; but in so far as climate
chiefly acts in reducing food, it brings on the most severe struggle
between the individuals, whether of the same or of distinct species,
which subsist on the same kind of food. Even when climate, for
instance extreme cold, acts directly, it will be the least vigorous
individuals, or those which have got least food through the advancing
winter, which will suffer most. When we travel from south to north,
or from a damp region to a dry, we invariably see some species
gradually getting rarer and rarer, and finally disappearing; and the
change of climate being conspicuous, we are tempted to attribute
the whole effect to its direct action. But this is a false view; we
forget that each species, even where it most abounds, is constantly
suffering enormous destruction at some period of its life, from
enemies or from competitors for the same place and food; and if these
enemies or competitors be in the least degree favored by any slight
change of climate, they will increase in numbers; and as each area
is already fully stocked with inhabitants, the other species must
decrease. When we travel southward and see a species decreasing in
numbers, we may feel sure that the cause lies quite as much in other
species being favored as in this one being hurt. So it is when we
travel northward, but in a somewhat lesser degree, for the number
of species of all kinds, and therefore of competitors, decreases
northward; hence in going northward, or in ascending a mountain,
we far oftener meet with stunted forms, due to the _directly_
injurious action of climate, than we do in proceeding southward
or in descending a mountain. When we reach the Arctic regions or
snow-capped summits, or absolute deserts, the struggle for life is
almost exclusively with the elements.

That climate acts in main part indirectly by favoring other species,
we clearly see in the prodigious number of plants which in our
gardens can perfectly well endure our climate, but which never become
naturalized, for they can not compete with our native plants nor
resist destruction by our native animals.

When a species, owing to highly favorable circumstances, increases
inordinately in numbers in a small tract, epidemics--at least, this
seems generally to occur with our game animals--often ensue; and here
we have a limiting check independent of the struggle for life. But
even some of these so-called epidemics appear to be due to parasitic
worms, which have from some cause, possibly in part through facility
of diffusion among the crowded animals, been disproportionally
favored: and here comes in a sort of struggle between the parasite
and its prey.

On the other hand, in many cases, a large stock of individuals of the
same species, relatively to the numbers of its enemies, is absolutely
necessary for its preservation. Thus we can easily raise plenty of
corn and rape-seed, etc., in our fields, because the seeds are in
great excess compared with the number of birds which feed on them;
nor can the birds, though having a superabundance of food at this one
season, increase in number proportionally to the supply of seed, as
their numbers are checked during winter; but any one who has tried
knows how troublesome it is to get seed from a few wheat or other
such plants in a garden: I have in this case lost every single seed.
This view of the necessity of a large stock of the same species for
its preservation explains, I believe, some singular facts in nature,
such as that of very rare plants being sometimes extremely abundant,
in the few spots where they do exist; and that of some social plants
being social, that is abounding in individuals, even on the extreme
verge of their range. For in such cases we may believe that a plant
could exist only where the conditions of its life were so favorable
that many could exist together, and thus save the species from utter
destruction. I should add that the good effects of intercrossing, and
the ill effects of close interbreeding, no doubt come into play in
many of these cases.

Many cases are on record showing how complex and unexpected are the
checks and relations between organic beings which have to struggle
together in the same country. I will give only a single instance,
which, though a simple one, interested me. In Staffordshire, on the
estate of a relation, where I had ample means of investigation,
there was a large and extremely barren heath, which had never been
touched by the hand of man; but several hundred acres of exactly
the same nature had been inclosed twenty-five years previously and
planted with Scotch fir. The change in the native vegetation of
the planted part of the heath was most remarkable, more than is
generally seen in passing from one quite different soil to another:
not only the proportional numbers of the heath-plants were wholly
changed, but twelve species of plants (not counting grasses and
carices) flourished in the plantations, which could not be found on
the heath. The effect on the insects must have been still greater,
for six insectivorous birds were very common in the plantations,
which were not to be seen on the heath; and the heath was frequented
by two or three distinct insectivorous birds. Here we see how
potent has been the effect of the introduction of a single tree,
nothing whatever else having been done, with the exception of the
land having been inclosed, so that cattle could not enter. But how
important an element inclosure is I plainly saw near Farnham, in
Surrey. Here there are extensive heaths, with a few clumps of old
Scotch firs on the distant hilltops: within the last ten years large
spaces have been inclosed, and self-sown firs are now springing
up in multitudes, so close together that all can not live. When I
ascertained that these young trees had not been sown or planted, I
was so much surprised at their numbers that I went to several points
of view, whence I could examine hundreds of acres of the uninclosed
heath, and literally I could not see a single Scotch fir except the
old planted clumps. But on looking closely between the stems of the
heath, I found a multitude of seedlings and little trees which had
been perpetually browsed down by the cattle. In one square yard, at
a point some hundred yards distant from one of the old clumps, I
counted thirty-two little trees; and one of them, with twenty-six
rings of growth, had, during many years, tried to raise its head
above the stems of the heath, and had failed. No wonder that, as soon
as the land was inclosed, it became thickly clothed with vigorously
growing young firs. Yet the heath was so extremely barren and so
extensive that no one would ever have imagined that cattle would have
so closely and effectually searched it for food.

Here we see that cattle absolutely determine the existence of the
Scotch fir; but in several parts of the world insects determine
the existence of cattle. Perhaps Paraguay offers the most curious
instance of this; for here neither cattle nor horses nor dogs
have ever run wild, though they swarm southward and northward
in a feral state; and Azara and Rengger have shown that this is
caused by the greater number in Paraguay of a certain fly, which
lays its eggs in the navels of these animals when first born. The
increase of these flies, numerous as they are, must be habitually
checked by some means, probably by other parasitic insects. Hence,
if certain insectivorous birds were to decrease in Paraguay, the
parasitic insects would probably increase; and this would lessen
the number of the navel-frequenting flies--then cattle and horses
would become feral, and this would certainly greatly alter (as
indeed I have observed in parts of South America) the vegetation:
this again would largely affect the insects; and this, as we have
just seen in Staffordshire, the insectivorous birds, and so onward
in ever-increasing circles of complexity. Not that under nature
the relations will ever be as simple as this. Battle within battle
must be continually recurring with varying success; and yet in
the long run the forces are so nicely balanced that the face of
nature remains for long periods of time uniform, though assuredly
the merest trifle would give the victory to one organic being over
another. Nevertheless, so profound is our ignorance, and so high our
presumption, that we marvel when we hear of the extinction of an
organic being; and as we do not see the cause, we invoke cataclysms
to desolate the world, or invent laws on the duration of the forms of
life!

I am tempted to give one more instance showing how plants and
animals, remote in the scale of nature, are bound together by a web
of complex relations. I shall hereafter have occasion to show that
the exotic Lobelia fulgens is never visited in my garden by insects,
and consequently, from its peculiar structure, never sets a seed.
Nearly all our orchidaceous plants absolutely require the visits of
insects to remove their pollen-masses and thus to fertilize them. I
find from experiments that humblebees are almost indispensable to
the fertilization of the heart’s-ease (Violo tricolor), for other
bees do not visit this flower. I have also found that the visits of
bees are necessary for the fertilization of some kinds of clover;
for instance, 20 heads of Dutch clover (Trifolium repens) yielded
2,290 seeds, but 20 other heads protected from bees produced not one.
Again, 100 heads of red clover (T. pratense) produced 2,700 seeds,
but the same number of protected heads produced not a single seed.
Humblebees alone visit red clover, as other bees can not reach the
nectar. It has been suggested that moths may fertilize the clovers;
but I doubt whether they could do so in the case of the red clover,
from their weight not being sufficient to depress the wing petals.
Hence we may infer as highly probable that, if the whole genus of
humblebees became extinct or very rare in England, the heart’s-ease
and red clover would become very rare, or wholly disappear. The
number of humblebees in any district depends in a great measure upon
the number of field-mice, which destroy their combs and nests; and
Colonel Newman, who has long attended to the habits of humblebees,
believes that “more than two-thirds of them are thus destroyed all
over England.” Now the number of mice is largely dependent, as every
one knows, on the number of cats; and Colonel Newman says, “Near
villages and small towns I have found the nests of humblebees more
numerous than elsewhere, which I attribute to the number of cats that
destroy the mice.” Hence it is quite credible that the presence of a
feline animal in large numbers in a district might determine, through
the intervention first of mice and then of bees, the frequency of
certain flowers in that district!

The dependency of one organic being on another, as of a parasite
on its prey, lies generally between beings remote in the scale of
nature. This is likewise sometimes the case with those which may
be strictly said to struggle with each other for existence, as in
the case of locusts and grassfeeding quadrupeds. But the struggle
will almost invariably be most severe between the individuals of
the same species, for they frequent the same districts, require
the same food, and are exposed to the same dangers. In the case of
varieties of the same species, the struggle will generally be almost
equally severe, and we sometimes see the contest soon decided: for
instance, if several varieties of wheat be sown together, and the
mixed seed be resown, some of the varieties which best suit the
soil or climate, or are naturally the most fertile, will beat the
others and so yield more seed, and will consequently in a few years
supplant the other varieties. To keep up a mixed stock of even such
extremely close varieties as the variously colored sweet peas, they
must be each year harvested separately, and the seed then mixed in
due proportion, otherwise the weaker kinds will steadily decrease in
number and disappear. So again with the varieties of sheep; it has
been asserted that certain mountain varieties will starve out other
mountain varieties, so that they can not be kept together. The same
result has followed from keeping together different varieties of the
medicinal leech. It may even be doubted whether the varieties of any
of our domestic plants or animals have so exactly the same strength,
habits, and constitution, that the original proportions of a mixed
stock (crossing being prevented) could be kept up for half a dozen
generations, if they were allowed to struggle together, in the same
manner as beings in a state of nature, and if the seed or young were
not annually preserved in due proportion.

As the species of the same genus usually have, though by no means
invariably, much similarity in habits and constitution, and always
in structure, the struggle will generally be more severe between
them, if they come into competition with each other, than between
the species of distinct genera. We see this in the extension over
parts of the United States of one species of swallow having caused
the decrease of another species. The increase of the missel-thrush
in parts of Scotland has caused the decrease of the song-thrush. How
frequently we hear of one species of rat taking the place of another
species under the most different climates! In Russia the small
Asiatic cockroach has everywhere driven before it its great congener.
In Australia the imported hive-bee is rapidly exterminating the
small, stingless native bee. One species of charlock has been known
to supplant another species; and so in other cases.

A corollary of the highest importance may be deduced from the
foregoing remarks; namely, that the structure of every organic being
is related, in the most essential yet often hidden manner, to that of
all the other organic beings, with which it comes into competition
for food or residence, or from which it has to escape, or on which it
preys. This is obvious in the structure of the teeth and talons of
the tiger; and in that of the legs and claws of the parasite which
clings to the hair on the tiger’s body. But in the beautifully plumed
seed of the dandelion, and in the flattened and fringed legs of the
water-beetle, the relation seems at first confined to the elements of
air and water. Yet the advantage of plumed seeds no doubt stands in
the closest relation to the land being already thickly clothed with
other plants; so that the seeds may be widely distributed and fall on
unoccupied ground. In the water-beetle, the structure of its legs,
so well adapted for diving, allows it to compete with other aquatic
insects, to hunt for its own prey, and to escape serving as prey to
other animals.

All that we can do is to keep steadily in mind that each organic
being is striving to increase in a geometrical ratio; that each at
some period of its life, during some season of the year, during
each generation, or at intervals, has to struggle for life and to
suffer great destruction. When we reflect on this struggle, we may
console ourselves with the full belief that the war of nature is not
incessant, that no fear is felt, that death is generally prompt, and
that the vigorous, the healthy, and the happy survive and multiply.




  NATURAL SELECTION
  --CHARLES DARWIN


How will the struggle for existence, briefly discussed in the last
chapter, act in regard to variation? Can the principle of selection,
which we have seen is so potent in the hands of man, apply under
nature? I think we shall see that it can act most efficiently. Let
the endless number of slight variations and individual differences
occurring in our domestic productions, and, in a lesser degree,
in those under nature, be borne in mind; as well as the strength
of the hereditary tendency. Under domestication, it may be truly
said that the whole organization becomes in some degree plastic.
But the variability, which we almost universally meet with in our
domestic productions, is not directly produced, as Hooker and Asa
Gray have well remarked, by man; he can neither originate varieties,
nor prevent their occurrence; he can only preserve and accumulate
such as do occur. Unintentionally he exposes organic beings to
new and changing conditions of life, and variability ensues; but
similar changes of conditions might and do occur under nature. Let
it also be borne in mind how infinitely complex and close-fitting
are the mutual relations of all organic beings to each other and to
their physical conditions of life; and consequently what infinitely
varied diversities of structure might be of use to each being under
changing conditions of life. Can it, then, be thought improbable,
seeing that variations useful to man have undoubtedly occurred, that
other variations useful in some way to each being in the great and
complex battle of life, should occur in the course of many successive
generations? If such do occur, can we doubt (remembering that many
more individuals are born than can possibly survive) that individuals
having any advantage, however slight, over others, would have the
best chance of surviving and of procreating their kind? On the
other hand, we may feel sure that any variation in the least degree
injurious would be rigidly destroyed. This preservation of favorable
individual differences and variations, and the destruction of those
which are injurious, I have called Natural Selection, or the Survival
of the Fittest.

We shall best understand the probable course of natural selection
by taking the case of a country undergoing some slight physical
change, for instance, of climate. The proportional numbers of its
inhabitants will almost immediately undergo a change, and some
species will probably become extinct. We may conclude, from what we
have seen of the intimate and complex manner in which the inhabitants
of each country are bound together, that any change in the numerical
proportions of the inhabitants, independently of the change of
climate itself, would seriously affect the others. If the country
were open on its borders, new forms would certainly immigrate,
and this would likewise seriously disturb the relations of some
of the former inhabitants. Let it be remembered how powerful the
influence of a single introduced tree or mammal has been shown to
be. But in the case of an island, or of a country partly surrounded
by barriers, into which new and better adapted forms could not
freely enter, we should then have places in the economy of nature
which would assuredly be better filled up, if some of the original
inhabitants were in some manner modified; for, had the area been
open to immigration, these same places would have been seized on by
intruders. In such cases, slight modifications, which in any way
favored the individuals of any species, by better adapting them to
their altered conditions, would tend to be preserved; and natural
selection would have free scope for the work of improvement.

We have good reason to believe that changes in the conditions of life
give a tendency to increased variability; and in the foregoing cases
the conditions have changed, and this would manifestly be favorable
to natural selection, by affording a better chance of the occurrence
of profitable variations. Unless such occur, natural selection can do
nothing. Under the term of “variations,” it must never be forgotten
that mere individual differences are included. As man can produce a
great result with his domestic animals and plants by adding up in any
given direction individual differences, so could natural selection,
but far more easily from having incomparably longer time for action.
Nor do I believe that any great physical change, as of climate, or
any unusual degree of isolation to check immigration, is necessary
in order that new and unoccupied places should be left for natural
selection to fill up by improving some of the varying inhabitants.
For as all the inhabitants of each country are struggling together
with nicely balanced forces, extremely slight modifications in the
structure or habits of one species would often give it an advantage
over others; and still further modifications of the same kind would
often still further increase the advantage, as long as the species
continued under the same conditions of life and profited by similar
means of subsistence and defence. No country can be named in which
all the native inhabitants are now so perfectly adapted to each
other and to the physical conditions under which they live, that
none of them could be still better adapted or improved; for in all
countries the natives have been so far conquered by naturalized
productions that they have allowed some foreigners to take firm
possession of the land. And as foreigners have thus in every country
beaten some of the natives, we may safely conclude that the natives
might have been modified with advantage, so as to have better
resisted the intruders.

As man can produce, and certainly has produced, a great result
by his methodical and unconscious means of selection, what may
not natural selection effect? Man can act only on external and
visible characters: Nature, if I may be allowed to personify the
natural preservation or survival of the fittest, cares nothing for
appearances, except in so far as they are useful to any being. She
can act on every internal organ, on every shade of constitutional
difference, on the whole machinery of life. Man selects only for his
own good: Nature only for that of the being which she tends. Every
selected character is fully exercised by her, as is implied by the
fact of their selection. Man keeps the natives of many climates in
the same country; he seldom exercises each selected character in
some peculiar and fitting manner; he feeds a long and a short-beaked
pigeon on the same food; he does not exercise a long-backed or
long-legged quadruped in any peculiar manner; he exposes sheep
with long and short wool to the same climate. He does not allow
the most vigorous males to struggle for the females. He does not
rigidly destroy all inferior animals, but protects during each
varying season, as far as lies in his power, all his productions.
He often begins his selection by some half-monstrous form; or at
least by some modification prominent enough to catch the eye or to
be plainly useful to him. Under Nature, the slightest differences of
structure or constitution may well turn the nicely balanced scale
in the struggle for life, and so be preserved. How fleeting are the
wishes and efforts of man! how short his time! and consequently
how poor will be his results, compared with those accumulated by
Nature during whole geological periods! Can we wonder, then, that
Nature’s productions should be far “truer” in character than man’s
productions; that they should be infinitely better adapted to the
most complex conditions of life, and should plainly bear the stamp of
far higher workmanship?

It may metaphorically be said that natural selection is daily and
hourly scrutinizing, throughout the world, the slightest variations;
rejecting those that are bad, preserving and adding up all that
are good; silently and insensibly working, _whenever and wherever
opportunity offers_, at the improvement of each organic being in
relation to its organic and inorganic conditions of life. We see
nothing of these slow changes in progress, until the hand of time
has marked the lapse of ages, and then so imperfect is our view into
long-past geological ages, that we see only that the forms of life
are now different from what they formerly were.

In order that any great amount of modification should be effected in
a species, a variety when once formed must again, perhaps after a
long interval of time, vary or present individual differences of the
same favorable nature as before; and these must be again preserved,
and so onward step by step. Seeing that individual differences of
the same kind perpetually recur, this can hardly be considered as
an unwarrantable assumption. But whether it is true, we can judge
only by seeing how far the hypothesis accords with and explains the
general phenomena of nature. On the other hand, the ordinary belief
that the amount of possible variation is a strictly limited quantity
is likewise a simple assumption.

Although natural selection can act only through and for the good
of each being, yet characters and structures, which we are apt to
consider as of very trifling importance, may thus be acted on. When
we see leaf-eating insects green, and bark-feeders mottled-gray;
the Alpine ptarmigan white in winter, the red grouse the color of
heather, we must believe that these tints are of service to these
birds and insects in preserving them from danger. Grouse, if not
destroyed at some period of their lives, would increase in countless
numbers; they are known to suffer largely from birds of prey; and
hawks are guided by eyesight to their prey--so much so, that on parts
of the Continent persons are warned not to keep white pigeons, as
being the most liable to destruction. Hence natural selection might
be effective in giving the proper color to each kind of grouse, and
in keeping that color, when once acquired, true and constant. Nor
ought we to think that the occasional destruction of an animal of any
particular color would produce little effect: we should remember
how essential it is in a flock of white sheep to destroy a lamb with
the faintest trace of black. In plants, the down on the fruit and
the color of the flesh are considered by botanists as characters
of the most trifling importance: yet we hear from an excellent
horticulturist, Downing, that in the United States smooth-skinned
fruits suffer far more from a beetle, a Curculio, than those with
down; that purple plums suffer far more from a certain disease
than yellow plums; whereas another disease attacks yellow-fleshed
peaches far more than those with other colored flesh. If, with all
the aids of art, these slight differences make a great difference in
cultivating the several varieties, assuredly, in a state of nature,
where the trees would have to struggle with other trees and with a
host of enemies, such differences would effectually settle which
variety, whether a smooth or downy, a yellow or purple fleshed fruit,
should succeed.

In looking at many small points of difference between species, which,
as far as our ignorance permits us to judge, seem quite unimportant,
we must not forget that climate, food, etc., have no doubt produced
some direct effect. It is also necessary to bear in mind that, owing
to the law of correlation, when one part varies, and the variations
are accumulated through natural selection, other modifications, often
of the most unexpected nature, will ensue.

Natural selection will modify the structure of the young in relation
to the parent, and of the parent in relation to the young. In social
animals it will adapt the structure of each individual for the
benefit of the whole community; if the community profits by the
selected change. What natural selection can not do is to modify the
structure of one species, without giving it any advantage, for the
good of another species; and though statements to this effect may
be found in works of natural history, I can not find one case which
will bear investigation. A structure used only once in an animal’s
life, if of high importance to it, might be modified to any extent by
natural selection; for instance, the great jaws possessed by certain
insects, used exclusively for opening the cocoon--or the hard tip to
the beak of unhatched birds, used for breaking the egg. It has been
asserted that of the best short-beaked tumbler-pigeons a greater
number perish in the egg than are able to get out of it; so that
fanciers assist in the act of hatching. Now if nature had to make
the beak of a full-grown pigeon short for the bird’s own advantage,
the process of modification would be very slow and there would be
simultaneously the most rigorous selection of all the young birds
within the egg, which had the most powerful and hardest beaks, for
all with weak beaks would inevitably perish; or, more delicate and
more easily broken shells might be selected, the thickness of the
shell being known to vary like every other structure.

Inasmuch as peculiarities often appear under domestication in one
sex and become hereditarily attached to that sex, so no doubt it
will be under nature. Thus it is rendered possible for the two sexes
to be modified through natural selection in relation to different
habits of life, as is sometimes the case; or for one sex to be
modified in relation to the other sex, as commonly occurs. This
leads me to say a few words on what I have called Sexual Selection.
This form of selection depends, not on a struggle for existence in
relation to other organic beings or to external conditions, but on
a struggle between the individuals of one sex, generally the males,
for the possession of the other sex. The result is not death to the
unsuccessful competitor, but few or no offspring. Sexual selection
is, therefore, less rigorous than natural selection. Generally, the
most vigorous males, those which are best fitted for their places in
nature, will leave most progeny. But in many cases, victory depends
not so much on general vigor as on having special weapons, confined
to the male sex. A hornless stag or spurless cock would have a poor
chance of leaving numerous offspring. Sexual selection, by always
allowing the victor to breed, might surely give indomitable courage,
length to the spur, and strength to the wing to strike in the spurred
leg, in nearly the same manner as does the brutal cockfighter by the
careful selection of his best cocks. How low in the scale of nature
the law of battle descends I know not; male alligators have been
described as fighting, bellowing, and whirling round, like Indians
in a war-dance, for the possession of the females; male salmon have
been observed fighting all day long; male stag-beetles sometimes bear
wounds from the huge mandibles of other males; the males of certain
hymenopterous insects have been frequently seen by that inimitable
observer, M. Fabre, fighting for a particular female who sits by, an
apparently unconcerned beholder of the struggle, and then retires
with the conqueror. The war is, perhaps, severest between the males
of polygamous animals, and these seem oftenest provided with special
weapons. The males of carnivorous animals are already well armed;
though to them and to others special means of defence may be given
through means of sexual selection, as the mane of the lion and the
hooked jaw to the male salmon; for the shield may be as important for
victory as the sword or spear.

Among birds, the contest is often of a more peaceful character. All
those who have attended to the subject believe that there is the
severest rivalry between the males of many species to attract, by
singing, the females. The rock-thrush of Guiana, birds of paradise,
and some others, congregate; and successive males display with the
most elaborate care, and show off in the best manner, their gorgeous
plumage; they likewise perform strange antics before the females,
which, standing by as spectators, at last choose the most attractive
partner. Those who have closely attended to birds in confinement
well know that they often take individual preferences and dislikes:
thus Sir R. Heron has described how a pied peacock was eminently
attractive to all his hen birds. I can not here enter on the
necessary details; but if man can in a short time give beauty and an
elegant carriage to his bantams, according to his standard of beauty,
I can see no good reason to doubt that female birds, by selecting,
during thousands of generations, the most melodious or beautiful
males, according to their standard of beauty, might produce a marked
effect. Some well-known laws, with respect to the plumage of male
and female birds, in comparison with the plumage of the young,
can partly be explained through the action of sexual selection on
variations occurring at different ages, and transmitted to the males
alone or to both sexes at corresponding ages.

Thus it is, as I believe, that when the males and females of any
animal have the same general habits of life, but differ in structure,
color, or ornament, such differences have been mainly caused by
sexual selection: that is, by individual males having had, in
successive generations, some slight advantage over other males,
in their weapons, means of defence, or charms, which they have
transmitted to their male offspring alone. Yet, I would not wish to
attribute all sexual differences to this agency: for we see in our
domestic animals peculiarities arising and becoming attached to the
male sex, which apparently have not been augmented through selection
by man. The tuft of hair on the breast of the wild turkey-cock can
not be of any use, and it is doubtful whether it can be ornamental
in the eyes of the female bird;--indeed, had the tuft appeared under
domestication, it would have been called a monstrosity.

In order to make it clear how, as I believe, natural selection acts,
I must beg permission to give one or two imaginary illustrations. Let
us take the case of a wolf, which preys on various animals, securing
some by craft, some by strength, and some by fleetness; and let us
suppose that the fleetest prey, a deer, for instance, had from any
change in the country increased in numbers, or that other prey had
decreased in numbers, during that season of the year when the wolf
was hardest pressed for food. Under such circumstances the swiftest
and slimmest wolves would have the best chance of surviving and so be
preserved or selected--provided always that they retained strength to
master their prey at this or some other period of the year, when they
were compelled to prey on other animals. I can see no more reason to
doubt that this would be the result than that man should be able to
improve the fleetness of his greyhounds by careful and methodical
selection, or by that kind of unconscious selection which follows
from each man trying to keep the best dogs without any thought of
modifying the breed. I may add, that, according to Mr. Pierce, there
are two varieties of the wolf inhabiting the Catskill Mountains,
in the United States, one with a light greyhound-like form, which
pursues deer, and the other more bulky, with shorter legs, which more
frequently attacks the shepherd’s flocks.

To the effects of intercrossing in eliminating variations of all
kinds, I shall have to recur; but it may be here remarked that most
animals and plants keep to their proper homes, and do not needlessly
wander about; we see this even with migratory birds, which almost
always return to the same spot. Consequently each newly formed
variety would generally be at first local, as seems to be the common
rule with varieties in a state of nature; so that similarly modified
individuals would soon exist in a small body together, and would
often breed together. If the new variety were successful in its
battle for life, it would slowly spread from a central district,
competing with and conquering the unchanged individuals on the
margins of an ever-increasing circle.

[Illustration: Beautiful and Curious Shells

1, Strombus; 2, Chama; 3, Struthiolaria; 4, Tridacna; 5, Hippopus; 6,
Ranella; 7, Pteroceras; 8, 10, Murex; 9, Terebra]

It may be worth while to give another and more complex illustration
of the action of natural selection. Certain plants excrete sweet
juice, apparently for the sake of eliminating something injurious
from the sap: this is effected, for instance, by glands at the
base of the stipules in some Leguminosæ, and at the backs of the
leaves of the common laurel. This juice, though small in quantity,
is greedily sought by insects; but their visits do not in any way
benefit the plant Now, let us suppose that the juice or nectar was
excreted from the inside of the flowers of a certain number of plants
of any species. Insects in seeking the nectar would get dusted with
pollen, and would often transport it from one flower to another.
The flowers of two distinct individuals of the same species would
thus get crossed; and the act of crossing, as can be fully proved,
gives rise to vigorous seedlings, which consequently would have the
best chance of flourishing and surviving. The plants which produced
flowers with the largest glands or nectaries, excreting most nectar,
would oftenest be visited by insects, and would oftenest be crossed;
and so in the long run would gain the upper hand and form a local
variety. The flowers, also, which had their stamens and pistils
placed, in relation to the size and habits of the particular insect
which visited them, so as to favor in any degree the transportal
of the pollen, would likewise be favored. We might have taken the
case of insects visiting flowers for the sake of collecting pollen
instead of nectar; and as pollen is formed for the sole purpose of
fertilization, its destruction appears to be a simple loss to the
plant; yet if a little pollen were carried, at first occasionally
and then habitually, by the pollen-devouring insects from flower to
flower, and a cross thus effected, although nine-tenths of the pollen
were destroyed it might still be a great gain to the plant to be thus
robbed; and the individuals which produced more and more pollen, and
had larger anthers, would be selected.

When our plant, by the above process long continued, had been
rendered highly attractive to insects, they would, unintentionally on
their part, regularly carry pollen from flower to flower; and that
they do this effectually, I could easily show by many striking facts.

Let us now turn to the nectar-feeding insects; we may suppose
the plant, of which we have been slowly increasing the nectar by
continued selection, to be a common plant; and that certain insects
depended in main part on its nectar for food. I could give many
facts showing how anxious bees are to save time: for instance,
their habit of cutting holes and sucking the nectar at the bases of
certain flowers, which with a very little more trouble they can enter
by the mouth. Bearing such facts in mind, it may be believed that
under certain circumstances individual differences in the curvature
or length of the proboscis, etc., too slight to be appreciated by
us, might profit a bee or other insect, so that certain individuals
would be able to obtain their food more quickly than others; and thus
the communities to which they belonged would flourish and throw
off many swarms inheriting the same peculiarities. The tubes of the
corolla of the common red and incarnate clovers (Trifolium pratense
and incarnatum) do not on a hasty glance appear to differ in length;
yet the hive-bee can easily suck the nectar out of the incarnate
clover, but not out of the common red clover, which is visited by
humblebees alone; so that whole fields of the red clover offer in
vain an abundant supply of precious nectar to the hive-bee. That
this nectar is much liked by the hive-bee is certain; for I have
repeatedly seen, but only in the autumn, many hive-bees sucking the
flowers through holes bitten in the base of the tube by humblebees.
The difference in the length of the corolla in the two kinds of
clover, which determines the visits of the hive-bee, must be very
trifling; for I have been assured that when red clover has been mown,
the flowers of the second crop are somewhat smaller, and that these
are visited by many hive-bees. I do not know whether this statement
is accurate; nor whether another published statement can be trusted,
namely, that the Ligurian bee, which is generally considered a mere
variety of the common hive-bee, and which freely crosses with it,
is able to reach and suck the nectar of the red clover. Thus, in
a country where this kind of clover abounded, it might be a great
advantage to the hive-bee to have a slightly longer or differently
constructed proboscis. On the other hand, as the fertility of this
clover absolutely depends on bees visiting the flowers, if humblebees
were to become rare in any country, it might be a great advantage
to the plant to have a shorter or more deeply divided corolla, so
that the hive-bees should be enabled to suck its flowers. Thus I
can understand how a flower and a bee might slowly become, either
simultaneously or one after the other, modified and adapted to each
other in the most perfect manner, by the continued preservation of
all the individuals which presented slight deviations of structure
mutually favorable to each other.

I must here introduce a short digression. In the case of animals
and plants with separated sexes, it is of course obvious that
two individuals must always (with the exception of the curious
and not well understood cases of parthenogenesis) unite for
each birth; but in the case of hermaphrodites this is far from
obvious. Nevertheless there is reason to believe that with all
hermaphrodites two individuals, either occasionally or habitually,
concur for the reproduction of their kind. This view was long ago
doubtfully suggested by Sprengel, Knight, and Kölreuter. We shall
presently see its importance; but I must here treat the subject
with extreme brevity, though I have the materials prepared for an
ample discussion. All vertebrate animals, all insects, and some
other large groups of animals, pair for each birth. Modern research
has much diminished the number of supposed hermaphrodites; and of
real hermaphrodites a large number pair; that is, two individuals
regularly unite for reproduction, which is all that concerns us. But
still there are many hermaphrodite animals which certainly do not
habitually pair, and a vast majority of plants are hermaphrodites.
What reason, it may be asked, is there for supposing in these cases
that two individuals ever concur in reproduction? As it is impossible
here to enter on details, I must trust to some general considerations
alone.

In the first place, I have collected so large a body of facts, and
made so many experiments, showing, in accordance with the almost
universal belief of breeders, that with animals and plants a cross
between different varieties, or between individuals of the same
variety but of another strain, gives vigor and fertility to the
offspring; and, on the other hand, that _close_ interbreeding
diminishes vigor and fertility; that these facts alone incline me
to believe that it is a general law of nature that no organic being
fertilizes itself for a perpetuity of generations; but that a cross
with another individual is occasionally--perhaps at long intervals of
time--indispensable.

Turning for a brief space to animals; various terrestrial species are
hermaphrodites, such as the land-mollusca and earthworms; but these
all pair. As yet I have not found a single terrestrial animal which
can fertilize itself. This remarkable fact, which offers so strong
a contrast with terrestrial plants, is intelligible on the view of
an occasional cross being indispensable; for owing to the nature of
the fertilizing element there are no means, analogous to the action
of insects and of the wind with plants, by which an occasional cross
could be effected with terrestrial animals without the concurrence of
two individuals. Of aquatic animals, there are many self-fertilizing
hermaphrodites; but here the currents of water offer an obvious
means for an occasional cross. As in the case of flowers, I have as
yet failed, after consultation with one of the highest authorities,
namely, Professor Huxley, to discover a single hermaphrodite animal
with the organs of reproduction so perfectly inclosed that access
from without, and the occasional influence of a distinct individual,
can be shown to be physically impossible. Cirripeds long appeared to
me to present, under this point of view, a case of great difficulty;
but I have been enabled, by a fortunate chance, to prove that two
individuals, though both are self-fertilizing hermaphrodites, do
sometimes cross.

It must have struck most naturalists as a strange anomaly that,
both with animals and plants, some species of the same family and
even of the same genus, though agreeing closely with each other in
their whole organization, are hermaphrodites, and some unisexual.
But if, in fact, all hermaphrodites do occasionally intercross, the
difference between them and unisexual species is, as far as function
is concerned, very small.

From these several considerations and from the many special facts
which I have collected, but which I am unable here to give, it
appears that with animals and plants an occasional intercross between
distinct individuals is a very general, if not universal, law of
nature.

To sum up, as far as the extreme intricacy of the subject permits,
the circumstances favorable and unfavorable for the production of new
species through natural selection. I conclude that for terrestrial
productions a large continental area, which has undergone many
oscillations of level, will have been the most favorable for the
production of any new forms of life, fitted to endure for a long time
and to spread widely. While the area existed as a continent, the
inhabitants will have been numerous in individuals and kinds, and
will have been subjected to severe competition. When converted by
subsidence into large separate islands, there will still have existed
many individuals of the same species on each island: intercrossing
on the confines of the range of each new species will have been
checked: after physical changes of any kind, immigration will have
been prevented, so that new places in the polity of each island will
have had to be filled up by the modification of the old inhabitants;
and time will have been allowed for the varieties in each to become
well modified and perfected. When, by renewed elevation, the islands
were reconverted into a continental area, there will again have been
very severe competition: the most favored or improved varieties will
have been enabled to spread: there will have been much extinction of
the less improved forms, and the relative proportional numbers of
the various inhabitants of the reunited continent will again have
been changed; and again there will have been a fair field for natural
selection to improve still further the inhabitants, and thus to
produce new species.

That natural selection generally acts with extreme slowness I fully
admit. It can act only when there are places in the natural polity
of a district which can be better occupied by the modification of
some of its existing inhabitants. The occurrence of such places
will often depend on physical changes, which generally take place
very slowly, and on the immigration of better adapted forms being
prevented. As some few of the old inhabitants become modified, the
mutual relations of others will often be disturbed; and this will
create new places, ready to be filled up by better adapted forms; but
all this will take place very slowly. Although all the individuals
of the same species differ in some slight degree from each other,
it would often be long before differences of the right nature in
various parts of the organization might occur. The result would often
be greatly retarded by free intercrossing. Many will exclaim that
these several causes are amply sufficient to neutralize the power of
natural selection. I do not believe so. But I do believe that natural
selection will generally act very slowly, only at long intervals of
time, and only on a few of the inhabitants of the same region. I
further believe that these slow, intermittent results accord well
with what geology tells us of the rate and manner at which the
inhabitants of the world have changed.

Slow though the process of selection may be, if feeble man can do
much by artificial selection, I can see no limit to the amount of
change, to the beauty and complexity of the co-adaptations between
all organic beings, one with another and with their physical
conditions of life, which may have been effected in the long course
of time through nature’s power of selection, that is, by the survival
of the fittest.

Natural selection acts solely through the preservation of variations
in some way advantageous, which consequently endure. Owing to the
high geometrical rate of increase of all organic beings, each area
is already fully stocked with inhabitants; and it follows from this,
that as the favored forms increase in number, so, generally, will
the less favored decrease and become rare. Rarity, as geology tells
us, is the precursor to extinction. We can see that any form which
is represented by few individuals will run a good chance of utter
extinction, during great fluctuations in the nature of the seasons,
or from a temporary increase in the number of its enemies. But we may
go further than this; for, as new forms are produced, unless we admit
that specific forms can go on indefinitely increasing in number, many
old forms must become extinct. That the number of specific forms has
not indefinitely increased, geology plainly tells us; and we shall
attempt to show why it is that the number of species throughout the
world has not become immeasurably great.

We have seen that the species which are most numerous in individuals
have the best chance of producing favorable variations within any
given period. It is the common and diffused or dominant species which
offer the greatest number of recorded varieties. Hence, rare species
will be less quickly modified or improved within any given period;
they will consequently be beaten in the race for life by the modified
and improved descendants of the commoner species.

From these several considerations I think it inevitably follows that
as new species in the course of time are formed through natural
selection, others will become rarer and rarer, and finally extinct.
The forms which stand in closest competition with those undergoing
modification and improvement will naturally suffer most. And we have
seen in the chapter on the Struggle for Existence that it is the most
closely allied forms--varieties of the same species, and species of
the same genus or of related genera--which, from having nearly the
same structure, constitution, and habits, generally come into the
severest competition with each other; consequently, each new variety
or species, during the progress of its formation, will generally
press hardest on its nearest kindred, and tend to exterminate them.
We see the same process of extermination among our domesticated
productions, through the selection of improved forms by man. Many
curious instances could be given showing how quickly new breeds of
cattle, sheep, and other animals, and varieties of flowers, take the
place of older and inferior kinds. In Yorkshire, it is historically
known that the ancient black cattle were displaced by the long-horns,
and that these “were swept away by the short-horns” (I quote the
words of an agricultural writer) “as if by some murderous pestilence.”

Divergence of character is of high importance, and explains, as I
believe, several important facts. In the first place, varieties,
even strongly marked ones, though having somewhat of the character
of species--as is shown by the hopeless doubts in many cases of how
to rank them--yet certainly differ far less from each other than
do good and distinct species. Nevertheless, according to my view,
varieties are species in the process of formation, or are, as I
have called them, incipient species. How, then, does the lesser
difference between varieties become augmented into the greater
difference between species? That this does habitually happen, we
must infer from most of the innumerable species throughout nature
presenting well-marked differences, whereas varieties, the supposed
prototypes and parents of future well-marked species, present slight
and ill-defined differences. Mere chance, as we may call it, might
cause one variety to differ in some character from its parents, and
the offspring of this variety again to differ from its parent in the
very same character and in a greater degree; but this alone would
never account for so habitual and large a degree of difference as
that between the species of the same genus.

As has always been my practice, I have sought light on this head from
our domestic productions. We shall here find something analogous.
It will be admitted that the production of races so different as
short-horn and Hereford cattle, race and cart-horses, the several
breeds of pigeons, etc., could never have been effected by the mere
chance accumulation of similar variations during many successive
generations. In practice, a fancier is, for instance, struck by a
pigeon having a slightly shorter beak; another fancier is struck by a
pigeon having a rather longer beak; and on the acknowledged principle
that “fanciers do not and will not admire a medium standard, but
like extremes,” they both go on (as has actually occurred with the
sub-breeds of the tumbler-pigeon) choosing and breeding from birds
with longer and longer beaks, or with shorter and shorter beaks.
Again, we may suppose that at an early period of history, the men
of one nation or district required swifter horses, while those of
another required stronger and bulkier horses. The early differences
would be very slight, but, in the course of time, from the continued
selection of swifter horses in the one case, and of stronger ones in
the other, the differences would become greater, and would be noted
as forming two sub-breeds. Ultimately, after the lapse of centuries,
these sub-breeds would become converted into two well-established
and distinct breeds. As the differences became greater, the inferior
animals with intermediate characters, being neither very swift nor
very strong, would not have been used for breeding, and will thus
have tended to disappear. Here, then, we see in man’s productions the
action of what may be called the principle of divergence, causing
differences, at first barely appreciable, steadily to increase, and
the breeds to diverge in character, both from each other and from
their common parent.

But how, it may be asked, can any analogous principle apply in
nature? I believe it can and does apply most efficiently (though it
was a long time before I saw how), from the simple circumstance that
the more diversified the descendants from any one species become in
structure, constitution, and habits, by so much will they be better
enabled to seize on many and widely diversified places in the polity
of nature, and so be enabled to increase in numbers.

We can clearly discern this in the case of animals with simple
habits. Take the case of a carnivorous quadruped, of which the number
that can be supported in any country has long ago arrived at its
full average. If its natural power of increase be allowed to act,
it can succeed in increasing (the country not undergoing any change
in conditions) only by its varying descendants seizing on places at
present occupied by other animals: some of them, for instance, being
enabled to feed on new kinds of prey, either dead or alive; some
inhabiting new stations, climbing trees, frequenting water, and some
perhaps becoming less carnivorous. The more diversified in habits and
structure the descendants of our carnivorous animals become, the more
places they will be enabled to occupy. What applies to one animal
will apply throughout all time to all animals--that is, if they
vary--for otherwise natural selection can effect nothing.

By considering the nature of the plants or animals which have in
any country struggled successfully with the indigenes, and have
there become naturalized, we may gain some crude idea in what manner
some of the natives would have to be modified in order to gain an
advantage over their compatriots; and we may at least infer that
diversification of structure, amounting to new generic differences,
would be profitable to them.

The advantage of diversification of structure in the inhabitants of
the same region is, in fact, the same as that of the physiological
division of labor in the organs of the same individual body--a
subject so well elucidated by Milne Edwards. No physiologist
doubts that a stomach adapted to digest vegetable matter alone,
or flesh alone, draws most nutriment from these substances. So in
the general economy of any land, the more widely and perfectly
the animals and plants are diversified for different habits of
life, so will a greater number of individuals be capable of there
supporting themselves. A set of animals, with their organization
but little diversified, could hardly compete with a set more
perfectly diversified in structure. It may be doubted, for instance,
whether the Australian marsupials, which are divided into groups
differing but little from each other, and feebly representing,
as Mr. Waterhouse and others have remarked, our carnivorous,
ruminant, and rodent mammals, could successfully compete with these
well-developed orders. In the Australian mammals, we see the process
of diversification in an early and incomplete stage of development.

If under changing conditions of life organic beings present
individual differences in almost every part of their structure, and
this can not be disputed; if there be, owing to their geometrical
rate of increase, a severe struggle for life at some age, season, or
year, and this certainly can not be disputed; then, considering the
infinite complexity of the relations of all organic beings to each
other and to their conditions of life, causing an infinite diversity
in structure, constitution, and habits, to be advantageous to them,
it would be a most extraordinary fact if no variations had ever
occurred useful to each being’s own welfare, in the same manner as
so many variations have occurred useful to man. But if variations
useful to any organic being ever do occur, assuredly individuals
thus characterized will have the best chance of being preserved in
the struggle for life; and from the strong principle of inheritance,
these will tend to produce offspring similarly characterized. This
principle of preservation, or the survival of the fittest, I have
called Natural Selection. It leads to the improvement of each
creature in relation to its organic and inorganic conditions of life;
and consequently, in most cases, to what must be regarded as an
advance in organization. Nevertheless, low and simple forms will long
endure if well fitted for their simple conditions of life.

Natural selection, on the principle of qualities being inherited at
corresponding ages, can modify the egg, seed, or young, as easily as
the adult. Among many animals, sexual selection will have given its
aid to ordinary selection, by assuring to the most vigorous and best
adapted males the greatest number of offspring. Sexual selection will
also give characters useful to the males alone, in their struggles or
rivalry with other males; and these characters will be transmitted to
one sex or to both sexes, according to the form of inheritance which
prevails.

Whether natural selection has really thus acted, in adapting the
various forms of life to their several conditions and stations, must
be judged by the general tenor and balance of evidence. But we have
already seen how it entails extinction; and how largely extinction
has acted in the world’s history, geology plainly declares. Natural
selection, also, leads to divergence of character; for the more
organic beings diverge in structure, habits, and constitution, by so
much the more can a large number be supported on the area--of which
we see proof by looking to the inhabitants of any small spot, and
to the productions naturalized in foreign lands. Therefore, during
the modification of the descendants of any one species, and during
the incessant struggle of all species to increase in numbers, the
more diversified the descendants become, the better will be their
chance of success in the battle for life. Thus the small differences
distinguishing varieties of the same species steadily tend to
increase, till they equal the greater differences between species of
the same genus, or even of distinct genera.

We have seen that it is the common, the widely diffused and widely
ranging species, belonging to the larger genera within each class,
which vary most; and these tend to transmit to their modified
offspring that superiority which now makes them dominant in their own
countries. Natural selection, as has just been remarked, leads to
divergence of character and to much extinction of the less improved
and intermediate forms of life. On these principles, the nature of
the affinities, and the generally well-defined distinctions between
the innumerable organic beings in each class throughout the world,
may be explained. It is a truly wonderful fact--the wonder of which
we are apt to overlook from familiarity--that all animals and all
plants throughout all time and space should be related to each other
in groups, subordinate to groups, in the manner which we everywhere
behold; namely, varieties of the same species most closely related,
species of the same genus less closely and unequally related,
forming sections and sub-genera, species of distinct genera much
less closely related, and genera related in different degrees,
forming sub-families, families, orders, sub-classes and classes.
The several subordinate groups in any class can not be ranked in a
single file, but seem clustered round points, and these round other
points, and so on in almost endless cycles. If species had been
independently created, no explanation would have been possible of
this kind of classification; but it is explained through inheritance
and the complex action of natural selection, entailing extinction and
divergence of character.

The affinities of all the beings of the same class have sometimes
been represented by a great tree. I believe this simile largely
speaks the truth. The green and budding twigs may represent existing
species; and those produced during former years may represent the
long succession of extinct species. At each period of growth all the
growing twigs have tried to branch out on all sides, and to overtop
and kill the surrounding twigs and branches, in the same manner
as species and groups of species have at all times overmastered
other species in the great battle for life. The limbs divided into
great branches, and these into lesser and lesser branches, were
themselves once, when the tree was young, budding twigs; and this
connection of the former and present buds by ramifying branches
may well represent the classification of all extinct and living
species in groups subordinate to groups. Of the many twigs which
flourished when the tree was a mere bush, only two or three, now
grown into great branches, yet survive and bear the other branches;
so with the species which lived during long-past geological periods,
very few have left living and modified descendants. From the first
growth of the tree, many a limb and branch has decayed and dropped
off; and these fallen branches of various sizes may represent
those whole orders, families, and genera which have now no living
representatives, and which are known to us only in a fossil state.
As we here and there see a thin straggling branch springing from a
fork low down in a tree, and which by some chance has been favored
and is still alive on its summit, so we occasionally see an animal
like the Ornithorhynchus or Lepidosiren, which in some small degree
connects by its affinities two large branches of life, and which has
apparently been saved from fatal competition by having inhabited
a protected station. As buds give rise by growth to fresh buds,
and these, if vigorous, branch out and overtop on all sides many a
feebler branch, so by generation I believe it has been with the great
Tree of Life, which fills with its dead and broken branches the crust
of the earth, and covers the surface with its ever-branching and
beautiful ramifications.




  MAMMALIA
  --BARON CUVIER


The mammalia are placed at the head of the animal kingdom not only
because it is the class to which man himself belongs, but also
because it is that which enjoys the most numerous faculties, the most
delicate sensations, the most varied powers of motion, and in which
all the different qualities seem combined in order to produce a most
perfect degree of intelligence, the one most fertile in resources,
most susceptible of perfection, and least the slave of instinct.

As their quantity of respiration is moderate, they are designed in
general for walking on the earth, but with vigorous and continued
steps. The forms of the articulations of their skeleton are,
consequently, strictly defined, which determines all their motions
with the most rigorous precision.

Some of them, however, by means of limbs considerably elongated and
extended membranes, raise themselves in the air; others have them so
shortened that they can move with facility in water only, though this
does not deprive them of the general character of the class.

The upper jaw in all of these animals is fixed to the cranium; the
lower jaw is formed of two pieces only, articulated by a projecting
condyle to a fixed temporal bone; the neck consists of seven
vertebræ; one single species excepted, which has nine; the anterior
ribs are attached before, by cartilage to a sternum consisting of
several vertical pieces; their anterior extremity commences in a
shoulder-blade, that is not articulated, but simply suspended in the
flesh, often resting on the sternum by means of an intermediate bone,
called a clavicle. This extremity is continued by an arm, a forearm,
and a hand, the latter being composed of two ranges of small bones
called the carpus, of another range called the metacarpus, and of
the fingers, each of which consists of two or three bones, termed
phalanges.

With the exception of the cetacea, the first part of the posterior
extremity in all animals of this class is fixed to the spine,
forming a girdle or pelvis, which, in youth, consists of three
pairs of bones, the ilium which is attached to the spine, the pubis
which forms the anterior part of the girdle, and the ischium, the
posterior. At the point of union of these three bones is situated the
cavity with which the thigh is articulated, to which, in its turn,
is attached the leg, formed of two bones, the tibia and fibula; this
extremity is terminated by parts similar to those of the hand, _i.
e._, by a tarsus, metatarsus, and toes.

The head of the mammalia is always, articulated by two condyles, with
the atlas, the first vertebra of the neck.

The brain is always composed of two hemispheres, united by a
medullary layer, called the corpus callosum, containing the
ventricles, and enveloping four pairs of tubercles, named the corpora
striata, or striated bodies, the thalami nervorum opticorum, or beds
of the optic nerves, and the nates and testes. Between the optic beds
is a third ventricle, which communicates with a fourth under the
cerebellum, the crura of which always form a transverse prominence
under the medulla oblongata, called the pons Varolii, or bridge of
Varolius.

The eye, invariably lodged in its orbit, is protected by two lids and
a vestige of a third, and has its crystalline fixed by the ciliary
processes--its sclerotic is simply cellular.

The ear always contains a cavity called the tympanum, or drum, which
communicates with the mouth by the Eustachian tube; the cavity itself
is closed externally by a membrane called the membrana tympani, and
contains a chain of four little bones, named the incus or anvil,
malleus or hammer, the os orbiculare or circular bone, and the stapes
or stirrup; a vestibule, on the entrance of which rests the stapes,
and which communicates with three semicircular canals; and finally a
cochlea, which terminates by one canal in the vestibule and by the
other in the tympanum.

Their cranium is subdivided into three portions; the anterior is
formed by the two frontal and ethmoidal bones, the middle by the two
ossa parietalia and the os ethmoides, and the posterior by the os
occipitis. Between the ossa parietalia, the sphenoidalis, and the os
occipitis are interposed the two temporal bones, part of which belong
properly to the face.

Their face consists of two maxillary bones, between which pass the
nostrils; the two intermaxillaries are situated before and the two
ossa palati behind them; between these descends the vomer, a bony
process of the os ethmoides; at the entrance of the nasal canal are
placed the ossa nasi; to its external parietes adhere the inferior
turbinated bones, the superior ones which occupy its upper and
posterior portion belonging to the os ethmoides. The jugal or cheek
bone unites the maxillary to the temporal bone on each side, and
frequently to the os frontis; finally the os unguis and pars plana
of the ethmoid bone occupy the internal angle of the orbit, and
sometimes a part of the cheek. In the embryo state these bones also
are much more subdivided.

Their tongue is always fleshy, connected with a bone called the
hyoides, which is composed of several pieces, and suspended from the
cranium by ligaments.

Their lungs, two in number, divided into lobes and composed of an
infinite number of cells, are always inclosed, without any adhesion,
in a cavity formed by the ribs and diaphragm and lined by the pleura;
the organ of voice is always at the upper extremity of the trachea;
a fleshy curtain, called the velum palati, establishes a direct
communication between their larynx and nasal canal.

Their residence on the surface of the earth rendering them less
exposed to the alternations of cold and heat, their tegument, the
hair, is but moderately thick, and in such as inhabit warm climates
even that is rare.

The Cetacea, which live exclusively in water, are the only ones that
are altogether deprived of it.

The young are nourished for some time after birth by a fluid (milk)
peculiar to animals of this class, which is produced by the mammæ at
the time of parturition, and continues to be so long as is necessary.
It is from the mammæ that this class derives its name, and being a
character peculiar to it, they distinguish it better than any other
that is external.

The variable characters which form essential differences among the
mammalia are taken from the organs of touch, on which depends their
degree of ability or address, and from the organs of manducation,
which determine the nature of their ailment, and are all closely
connected, not only with everything relative to the function of
digestion, but also with a multitude of other differences relating to
their intelligence.

The degree of perfection of the organs of touch is estimated by the
number and the pliability of the fingers, and from the greater or
less extent to which their extremities are enveloped by the nail or
the hoof.

A hoof which completely envelops the end of the toe blunts its
sensibility, and renders the foot incapable of seizing.

The opposite extreme is when a nail, formed of one single lamina,
covers only one of the faces of the extremity of the finger, leaving
the other possessed of all its delicacy.

The nature of the food is known by the grinders, to the form of which
the articulation of the jaws universally corresponds.

To cut flesh, grinders are required as trenchant as a saw and jaws
fitted like scissors, having no other motion than a vertical one.

For bruising roots or grains flat-crowned grinders are necessary,
and jaws that have a lateral motion; in order that inequalities may
always exist on the crown of these teeth, it is also requisite that
their substance be composed of parts of unequal hardness, so that one
may wear away faster than others.

Hoofed animals are necessarily herbivorous, and have flat-crowned
grinders, inasmuch as their feet preclude the possibility of their
seizing a living prey.

Animals with unguiculated fingers were susceptible of more variety;
their food is of all kinds, and independently of the form of their
grinders, they differ greatly from each other in the pliability
and delicacy of their fingers. There is one character with respect
to this which has immense influence on their dexterity and greatly
multiplies its powers; it is the faculty of opposing the thumb to the
finger for the purpose of seizing minute objects, constituting what
is properly called a hand, a faculty which is carried to its highest
perfection in man, in whom the whole anterior extremity is free and
capable of prehension.

These various combinations which strictly determine the nature of the
different mammalia have given rise to the following orders:

Among the unguiculated animals, the first is Man, who, in addition
to privileges of other descriptions, possesses hands at the anterior
extremities only, the posterior being designed to support him in an
erect position.

In the order next to man, that of the Quadrumana, we find hands at
the four extremities.

In another order, that of the Carnivora, the thumb is not free, and
can not be opposed to the anterior extremities.

Each of these orders has the three sorts of teeth, grinders, canini,
and incisors, or cutting teeth.

In the fourth order, that of the Rodentia, the toes differ but little
from those of the Carnivora, but there are no canine teeth, and the
incisors are placed in front of the mouth, and adapted to a very
peculiar sort of manducation.

Then come those animals whose toes are much cramped and deeply sunk
in large nails, which are generally curved; they have no incisors,
and in some the canines disappear, while others have none of any
description. We comprise them all under the title of Edentata.

This distribution of the unguiculated animals would be perfect and
form a very regular series were it not that New Holland has lately
furnished us with a little collateral one, consisting of animals with
pouches, the different genera of which are connected by a general
similarity of organization; some of them, however, in the teeth and
nature of their diet corresponding to the Carnivora and others to the
Rodentia, and a third to the Edentata.

The hoofed animals are less numerous, and have likewise fewer
irregularities.

The Ruminantia, by their cloven foot, the absence of true incisors in
their upper jaw, and their four stomachs, form an order that is very
distinct.

The remaining hoofed animals may all be united in a single order,
which I shall call Pachydermata or Jumenta, the elephant excepted,
which might constitute a separate one, and which is remotely
connected with that of the Rodentia.

In the last place we find those of the mammalia which have no
posterior extremities, whose piscatory form and aquatic mode of life
would induce us to form them into a particular class, were it not
that in everything else their economy is similar to that in which
we have them. These are the hot-blooded fishes of the ancients, or
the Cetacea, which, uniting to the vigor of the other mammalia the
advantage of being sustained by the watery element, present to our
wondering sight the most gigantic of animals.




  ZOOLOGICAL ZONES
  --SIR RICHARD OWEN


Organic life in its animal form is much more developed, and more
variously, in the sea than in its vegetable form.

Observations of marine animals have led to attempts at generalizing
the results; and the modes of enunciating these generalizations or
laws of geographical distribution are very analogous to those which
have been applied to the vegetable kingdom, which is as diversely
developed on land as is the animal kingdom in the sea. Certain
horizontal areas, or provinces, have been characterized by the entire
assemblage of animals and plants constituting their population, of
which a considerable proportion is peculiar to each province, and
the majority of the species have their areas of maximum development
within it.

Of such provinces of marine life, that much-lamented, far-seeing,
and genial philosopher, Edward Forbes, has provisionally defined
twenty-five.

The same physical conditions are associated with a certain similarity
between the animals of different provinces. Where those provinces are
proximate, such likeness is due to the identity or close affinity of
the species; but where the provinces are remote the resemblance is
one of analogy, and species of different genera or families represent
each other.

A second mode of expressing the ascertained facts of the geographical
distribution of marine animals is by tracts called Homoiozoic
Belts, bounded by climatal lines; which are not, however, parallel
with lines of latitude, but undulate in subordination to climatal
influences of warm or cold oceanic currents, relations of land to
water, etc. Of these belts Professor E. Forbes has defined nine: one
equatorial, with four to the north and four to the south, which are
mutually representative.

But the most interesting form of expression of the distribution of
marine life is that which parallels the perpendicular distribution of
plants. Edward Forbes, availing himself of the valuable results of a
systematic use of the dredge, first showed that marine animals and
plants varied according to the depth at which they lived in a manner
very analogous to the changes in the forms and species of vegetation
observed in the ascent of a tropical mountain. He has expressed these
facts by defining five bathymetrical zones, or belts of depth, which
he calls: 1. Littoral; 2. Circumlittoral; 3. Median; 4. Infra-median;
5. Abyssal.

The life-forms of these zones vary, of course, according to the
nature of the sea bottom; and are modified by those primitive or
creative laws that have caused representative species in distant
localities under like physical conditions--species related by analogy.

Very much remains to be observed and studied by naturalists
in different parts of the globe, under the guidance of the
generalizations thus sketched out, to the completion of a perfect
theory. But in the progress to this, the results can not fail to be
practically most valuable. A shell or a sea-weed, whose relations
to depth are thus understood, may afford important information or
warning to the navigator. To the geologist the distribution of marine
life according to the zones of depth has given the clew to the
determination of the depth of the seas in which certain formations
have been deposited.

By the light of these laws of geographical distribution we view
with quite a new interest the shells, corals, and sea-weeds of our
own shores. We trace the regions whence they have been invaded by
races not aboriginally belonging to our seas; we obtain indications
of irruptions of sea-currents of dates anterior to the present
arrangements of land and water. Thus, part of our marine fauna has
been traced back to the old Pliocene period, part to the somewhat
newer period of the red-crag, part to the still more recent glacial
period--all these being anterior to the constitution of the Celtic
Province, as it is now displayed.

The class of animals to which the restrictive laws of geographical
distribution might seem least applicable is that of birds: their
peculiar power of locomotion, associated in numerous species with
migratory habits, might seem to render them independent of every
influence, save those of climate and of food, which directly affects
the conditions of their existence. Yet the long-winged albatross
is never met with north of the equator; nor does the condor soar
above other mountains than the Andes. The geographical range of its
European representative, the strong-winged lammergeyer, is similarly
restricted. The Asiatic Phasianidæ and Pavonidæ are represented
by turkeys (Meleagris) in America; by the guinea-fowl (Numida
Agelastus, Phasidus) in Africa, and by the Megapodiæ or mound birds
in Australia. Several genera of finches are peculiar to the Galapagos
Islands; the richly and fantastically ornate birds of paradise are
restricted to New Guinea and some neighboring isles. Mr. Sclater, who
has contributed the latest summary of facts on the distribution of
birds, reckons seventeen families as peculiar to America and sixteen
families as peculiar to Europe, Asia, and Africa. Some species have a
singularly restricted locality, as the red-grouse (Tetrao scoticus)
to the British Isles; the owl-parrot (Nestor productus) to Philip
Island, a small spot near New Zealand.

When birds have wings too short for flight, we marvel less at their
restricted range; and particular genera of brevipennate birds have
their peculiar continents and islands. The long and strong-limbed
ostrich courses over the whole continent of Africa and conterminous
Arabia. The genus of three-toed ostriches (rhea) is similarly
restricted to South America. The emeu (Dromaius) has Australia
assigned to it. The continent of the cassowary (Casaurius) has been
broken up into Sumatra, Java, Banda, and other islands, extending
from the southeastern peninsula of Asia to New Guinea. A second
species of cassowary has recently been imported to our zoological
gardens from the more southern island of New Britain. The singular
nocturnal wingless kivi (apteryx) is peculiar to the island of New
Zealand.

Other species and genera which seem to be like the apteryx, as it
were mocked with feathers and rudiments of wings, have wholly ceased
to exist within the memory of man in the islands to which they were
respectively restricted. The dodo (Didus ineptus) of the Mauritius,
and the solitaire (Pezophops solitaria) are instances.

In New Zealand also there existed, within the memory of the Maori
ancestry, huge birds having their nearest affinities to the still
existing apteryx of that island, but generically distinct from that
and all other known birds. I have proposed the name of Dinornis for
this now extinct genus, of which more than a dozen well-defined
species have come to my knowledge, all peculiar to New Zealand, and
the last discovered the strangest, by reason of the elephantine
proportions of its feet. A tridactyle wingless bird of another genus,
Æpyornis, second only to the gigantic Dinornis in size, appears to
have only recently become extinct--if it be extinct--in the island
of Madagascar. The egg of this bird, which may have suggested to the
Arabian voyagers, attaining Madagascar from the Red Sea, the idea
of the Roc of their romances, would hold the contents of six eggs
of the ostrich, sixteen eggs of the cassowary, and one hundred and
forty-eight eggs of the common fowl.

Had all the terrestrial animals that now exist diverged from one
common centre within the limited period of a few thousand years,
it might have been expected that the remoteness of their actual
localities from such ideal centre would bear a certain ratio with
their respective powers of locomotion. With regard to the class
of birds, one might have expected to find that those which were
deprived of the power of flight, and were adapted to subsist on the
vegetation of a warm or temperate latitude, would still be met with
more or less associated together, and least distant from the original
centre of dispersion situated in such a latitude. But what is the
fact? The species of no one order of birds is more widely dispersed
over the earth than the wingless or struthious kind. Assuming that
the original centre has been somewhere in the southwestern mountain
range of Asia, there is but one of the species of flightless birds
whose habitat can be reconciled with the hypothesis. By the neck of
land still uniting Asia with Africa, the progeny of the primary pair
created or liberated at the hypothetical centre might have traveled
to the latter continent, and there have propagated and dispersed
themselves southward to the Cape of Good Hope. It is remarkable,
however, that the ostrich should not have migrated eastward over
the vast plains or steppes which extend along the warmer temperate
zone of Asia, or have reached the southern tropical regions; it is
in fact scarcely known in the Asiatic continent, being restricted to
the Arabian deserts, and being rare even in those parts which are
most contiguous to what I have called its proper continent, Africa.
If we next consider the locality of the cassowary, we find great
difficulty in conceiving how such a bird could have migrated to the
islands of Java, the Moluccas, or New Guinea, from the continent
of Asia. The cassowary is not web-footed like the swimming birds;
for wings it has only a few short and strong quills. How could it
have overcome the obstacles which some hundreds of miles of ocean
would present to its passage from the continent of Asia to those
islands? If the difficulty already be felt to be great in regard to
the insular position of the cassowary, it is still greater when we
come to apply the hypothesis of dispersion from a single centre to
the dodo of the island of Mauritius, or the solitaire of the island
of Rodriguez. How, again, could the emeu have overcome the natural
obstacles to the migration of a wingless terrestrial bird from Asia
to Australia? and why should not the great continent of Asia have
offered in its fertile plains a locality suited to its existence, if
it ever at any period had existed on that continent? A bird of the
nature of the emeu was hardly less likely to have escaped the notice
of scientific travelers than the ostrich itself; but, save in the
Arabian deserts, the ostrich has not been found in any part of Asia,
and no other species of wingless birds has ever been met with on
that continent; the evidence in regard to such large and conspicuous
birds is conclusive to that fact. Again, in order that the rhea, or
three-toed ostrich, should reach South America by traveling along
that element on which alone it is organized and adapted to make
progress, it must, on the hypothesis of dispersion from a single
Asiatic centre, have traveled northward into the inhospitable wilds
of Siberia; it must have braved and overcome the severer regions
of the Arctic zone; it must have maintained its life with strength
adequate to the extraordinary power of walking and running more
than a thousand miles of land or frozen ocean utterly devoid of the
vegetables that now constitute its food before it could gain the
northern division of America, to the southern division of which it
is at present and seems ever to have been confined. The migration in
this case could not have been gradual and accomplished by successive
generations. No individual of the large vegetable-feeding wingless
bird that now subsists in South America could have maintained its
existence, much less hatched its eggs, in Arctic latitudes, where
the food of the species is wholly absent. If we are still to apply
the current hypothesis to this problem in natural history, we must
suppose that the pair or pairs of the rhea that started from the
highest temperate zone in Asia capable of maintaining their life
must have also been the same individuals which began to propagate
their kind when they reached the corresponding temperate latitude
of America. But no individuals of the rhea have remained in the
prairies or in any part of North America--they are limited to the
middle and southern division of the South American continent. And
now, finally, consider the abode of the little apteryx at the
Antipodes, in the comparatively small insulated patch of dry land
formed by New Zealand. Let us call to mind its very restricted means
of migration--the wings reduced to the minutest rudiments, the feet
webless like the common fowls, its power of swimming as feeble!
How could it ever have traversed six hundred miles of sea that
separate it from the nearest land intervening between New Zealand
and Asia? How pass from the southern extremity of that continent to
the nearest island of the Indian Archipelago, and so from member to
member of that group to Australia--and yet leave no trace behind of
such migration by the arrest of any descendants of the migratory
generations in Asia itself, or in any island between Asia and New
Zealand?

If these facts are inexplicable on the hypothesis of the dispersion
of the species of the air-breathing animals from a single Asiatic
centre, we must next endeavor to collect analogous facts and classify
them, and so try to explain intelligibly, that is agreeably with the
facts, the true law or cause of the actual geographical distribution
of animals.

The laws of geographical distribution, as affecting mammalian life,
have been reduced to great exactness by observations continued since
the time of Buffon, who first began to generalize about a century
ago in that way, noting the peculiarities of the species of South
American animals. The most important extension of this branch of
zoology has been due to recent researches and discoveries of extinct
species of the class Mammalia; and it is chiefly in relation to the
modifications of zoological ideas produced by palæontology that a few
brief remarks will here be made.

The Quadrumana, or order of apes, monkeys, and lemurs, consist of
three chief divisions--Catarhines, Platyrhines, and Strepsirhines.
The first family is peculiar to the Old World; the second to South
America; the third has the majority of its species and its chief
genus (Lemur) exclusively in Madagascar. Out of twenty-six known
species of Lemuridæ, only six are Asiatic and three are African.

The Catarhine monkeys include the Macaques, most of which are
Asiatic, a few are African and one European; the Cercopitheques,
most of which are African and a few Asiatic; and other genera which
characterize one or other continent exclusively. Thus the true
baboons (Papio) are African, as are the thumbless monkeys (Colobus)
and the chimpanzees (Troglodytes). The Semnopithecus, gibbons, and
orangs are peculiarly Asiatic. Palæontology has shown that a macaque,
a gibbon, and an orang existed during the older Tertiary times in
Europe, and that Semnopithecus existed in Miocene times in India.
But all the fossil remains of Quadrumana in the Old World belong to
the family Catarhina, which is still exclusively confined to that
great division of dry land. The tailless macaque (Innus silvanus)
of Gibraltar may have existed in that part of the Old World before
Europe was separated by the Straits of Gibraltar from Africa. Fossil
remains of Quadrumana have been discovered in South America; they
indicate Platyrhine forms: a species, for example, allied to the
howlers (Mycetes), but larger than any now known to exist, has left
its remains in Brazil.

While adverting to the geographical distribution of Quadrumana,
I would contrast the peculiarly limited range of the orangs and
chimpanzees with the cosmopolitan powers of mankind. The two species
of orang (Pithecus) are confined to Borneo and Sumatra; the two
species of chimpanzee (Troglodytes) are limited to an intertropical
tract of the western part of Africa. They appear to be inexorably
bound by climatal influences regulating the assemblage of certain
trees and the production of certain fruits. With all our care, in
regard to choice of food, clothing, and contrivances for artificially
maintaining the chief physical conditions of their existence, the
healthiest specimens of orang or chimpanzee, brought over in the
vigor of youth, perish within a period never exceeding three years,
and usually much shorter in England. By what metamorphoses, may we
ask, has the alleged humanized chimpanzee or orang been brought to
endure all climates? The advocates of transmutation have failed
to explain them. Certain it is that those physical differences
in cerebral, dental, and osteological structure which place, in
my estimate of them, the genus Homo in a distinct group of the
mammalian class, zoologically of higher value than the order, are
associated with equally contrasted powers of endurance of different
climates, whereby man has become a denizen of every part of the globe
from the Torrid to the Arctic zones.

Climate rigidly limits the range of the Quadrumana latitudinally;
creational and geographical causes limit their range in longitude.
Distinct genera represent each other in the same latitudes of the New
and Old Worlds; and also, in a great degree, in Africa and Asia. But
the development of an orang out of a chimpanzee, or reciprocally, is
physiologically inconceivable.

The order Ruminantia is principally represented by Old World species,
of which 162 have been defined, while only 24 species have been
discovered in the New World, and none in Australia, New Guinea, New
Zealand, or the Polynesian Isles.

The camelopard is now peculiar to Africa; the musk-deer to Africa
and Asia; out of fifty defined species of antelope, only one is
known in America, and none in the central and southern divisions
of the New World. The bison of North America is distinct from the
bison of Europe. The musk-ox alone, peculiar for its limitation, to
high northern latitudes, roams over the Arctic coasts of both Asia
and America. The deer tribe are more widely distributed. The camels
and dromedaries of the Old World are represented by the llamas and
vicunas of the New. As, in regard to a former (Tertiary) zoological
period, the fossil Camilidæ of Asia are of the genus Camilus, so
those of America are of the genus Auchenia. This geographical
restriction ruled prior to any evidence of man’s existence.

Palæontology has expanded our knowledge of the range of the giraffe:
during Miocene or old Pliocene periods, species of Camelopardalis
roamed in Asia and Europe. Passing to the non-ruminant Artiodactyles,
geology has also taught us that the hippopotamus was not always
confined, as now, to African rivers, but bathed, during Pliocene
times, in those of Asia and Europe. But no evidence has yet been had
that the giraffe or hippopotamus were ever other than Old World forms
of Ungulata.

With respect to the hog tribe, we find that the true swine (Sus) of
the Old World are represented by peccaries (Dicotyles) in the New;
and geology has recently shown that Tertiary species of Dicotyles
existed in North as well as South America. But no true Sus has been
found fossil in either division of the New World, nor have the
Dicotyles been found fossil in the Old World of the geographer. One
of the earliest forms of the European rhinoceros was devoid of the
nasal weapon.

Geology gives a wider range to the horse and elephant kinds than
was cognizant to the student of living species only. The existing
Equidæ and Elephantidæ properly belong, or are limited, to the Old
World; and the elephants to Asia and Africa, the species of the two
continents being quite distinct. The horse, as Buffon remarked,
carried terror to the eye of the indigenous Americans, viewing
the animal for the first time, as it proudly bore their Spanish
conqueror. But a species of Equus coexisted with the Megatherium and
Megalonyx in both South and North America, and perished apparently
with them, before the human period. Elephants are dependent chiefly
upon trees for food. One species now finds conditions of existence
in the rich forests of tropical Asia; and a second species in those
of tropical Africa. Why, we may ask, should not a third be living
at the expense of the still more luxuriant vegetation watered by
the Orinoco, the Essequibo, the Amazon, and La Plata, in tropical
America? Geology tells us that at least two kinds of elephant
(Mastodon Andium and Mastodon Humboldtii) formerly did derive their
subsistence, along with the great Megatheroid beasts, from that
abundant source. Nay, more; at least two kinds of elephant (Mastodon
ohioticus and Elephas texianus) existed in the warm and temperate
latitudes of North America. Twice as many species of mastodon and
elephant, distinct from all the others, roamed in Pliocene times in
the same latitude of Europe. At a later or Pleistocene period, a
huge elephant, clothed with wool and hair, obtained its food from
hardy trees, such as now grow in the 65th degree of north latitude;
and abundant remains of this Elephas primigenius (as it has been
prematurely called, since it was the last of the British elephants)
have been found in temperate and high northern latitudes in Europe,
Asia, and America. This, like other Arctic animals, was peculiar
in its family for its longitudinal range. The musk buffalo was
its contemporary in England and Europe, and still lingers in the
northernmost parts of America.

I have received evidences of elephantine species from China and
Australia, proving the proboscidian pachyderms to have been the
most cosmopolitan of hoofed herbivorous quadrupeds. Geology extends
the geographical range of the sloths and armadillos from South to
North America; but the deductions from recent rich discoveries of
huge terrestrial forms of sloth, of gigantic armadillos, and large
anteaters go to establish the fact that these peculiar features of
the order Bruta have ever been, as they are now, peculiar to America;
that several genera, including the larger species, have perished; and
that the range of their still existing diminutive representatives has
been reduced to the southern division of the New World.

Australia, which in extent of dry land merits to be regarded as
a fifth continent, has a more restricted and peculiar character
of aboriginal mammalian population than South America. It is
emphatically the “province” of those quadrupeds the females of which
are provided with a pouch for the transport and protection of their
prematurely formed young.

One genus of Marsupialia (Didelphys or opossums, properly so called)
is peculiar to America, and is there the sole representative of the
order. A small kangaroo, and a few phalangers, exist in islands
that link the Malayan Archipelago with the Australian world. All
the other marsupial genera are found in Australasia, comprising New
Guinea, Australia, and Tasmania. The largest and most destructive of
carnivorous marsupials are peculiar to Tasmania.

The sum of all the evidence from the fossil world in Australia
proves its mammalian population to have been essentially the same
in Pleistocene, if not Pliocene, times as now; only represented, as
the Edentate mammals in South America were then represented, by more
numerous genera, and much more gigantic species than now exist.

In the Miocene and Eocene tertiary deposits, marsupial fossils of the
American genus Didelphys have been found, both in France and England;
and they are associated with tapirs like that of America. In a more
ancient geological period, remains of marsupials, some insectivorous,
others with teeth, have been found in the upper Oolite.

Thus it would seem that the deeper we penetrate the earth, or, in
other words, the further we recede in time, the more completely we
are absolved from the present laws of geographical distribution.




  GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF ANIMALS
  --WILLIAM HUGHES


The great division of the animal kingdom recognized by naturalists is
that into vertebrate and invertebrate animals. Vertebrated animals
are those which possess a spinal bone, to which are attached ribs,
constituting the framework of the entire body. All animals of this
division have red blood. The vertebrate animals comprehend fishes,
reptiles, birds, and mammalia. This last term is inclusive of all
animals that suckle their young, man among the number.

The class mammalia comprehends the following orders: 1. Carnivora
(_flesh-eating_, as the lion, tiger, etc.); 2. Ruminantia (_animals
that chew the cud_, as the camel, ox, sheep, and others); 3.
Pachydermata (_thick-skinned_, as the elephant, horse, etc.); 4.
Rodentia (_gnawing_, as the beaver, squirrel, mice, etc.); 5.
Edentata (_toothless_, as the ant-eater and armadillo); 6. Quadrumma
(_four-handed_, as the ape and monkey tribe); 7. Cherioptera (having
_winged arms_, as bats); 8. Marsupialia (_pouched_, as the kangaroo
and opossum); 9. Cetaceæ (whales, dolphins, and the various seals).
The last-mentioned of these divisions includes members (and those
the largest) of a tribe assigned in popular language to a distinct
division of the animal world--fishes. But the whale and other
creatures of its order possess the distinguishing attribute of the
mammalia--that is, they afford their nutriment from the breast.

The animals belonging to the ruminating and pachydermatous orders are
further distinguished as ungulata, or hoofed, from the well-known
characteristic of their extremities. The domesticated animals that
are used as food by man are almost exclusively derived from this
class. The animals included within the other orders of mammalia are
designated as unguiculata, from their extremities terminating in
claws, or nails.

The invertebrate animals, or those which have no spinal bone, all
have white blood. They are scientifically divided into molluscous
animals, in which the muscles are attached to the skin, with or
without the protection of a shell--such as snails and slugs;
articulated animals, in which the covering of the body is divided
into rings or segments, to the interior of which the muscles are
attached--comprehending all insects and worms; and radiated animals,
in which the organs of motion or sensation radiate from a common
centre--such as star-fish.

The opposite sides of a hill-range, even in cases where the climate
is nearly identical, and the passage from one slope to the other
easy, will often exhibit different conditions of animal life.
Isothermal lines mark--with hardly less precision in the case
of animals than of plants--the range of particular families and
species, in the direction of latitude and elevation alike. The fact
that such is the case testifies strongly to the force of those
instincts with which all animals are endowed, and by which their
habits are regulated. The powers of locomotion possessed by animals
might at first sight seem calculated to favor a wider extension of
geographical range than belongs to vegetables, and in the well-known
instances of migratory species (of which the swallow and other birds
are familiar examples) such is undoubtedly the case. But even these
migrations are confined within a well-defined range, determined by
conditions of climate, and facility of obtaining the necessary food.
Birds in general are separated, as markedly as quadrupeds, in respect
of their habitat, or geographical range. This is equally true,
indeed, in regard to every one of the great classes into which the
animal world is divided. Each zone of the ocean, both in latitude and
in the direction of depth, has its proper forms of life.

To take an instance from land animals, the elephant is confined by
natural instinct within the belt of the warm latitudes, and not more
so by the high temperature which such latitudes alone enjoy than by
the limitation of its necessary food to the regions which are its
proper home. Nowhere else but within or near the tropics is there
found the luxuriant abundance of forest vegetation which the elephant
requires to make sustenance upon. The reindeer, on the other hand, is
as characteristically an inhabitant of polar latitudes, and perishes
if brought within the continued influence of a warmer temperature
than that of his native region. The ibex and the chamois, with some
other animals of the goat tribe, frequent only the highest and least
accessible portions of the mountain region, while various members
of the deer kind range over the lower elevations and the plains
below. Of birds, the condor, or great vulture of the Andes, confines
his range within the region of the highest peaks of the mountain
region, as his European congener--the lammergeyer, or vulture of
the Alps--does in another part of the globe. In the mountainous
portions of Great Britain, the eagles which (notwithstanding the keen
pursuit of the sportsman) frequent the scarcely accessible crags that
surround Loch Maree and other secluded localities of the Highlands,
furnish a similar instance. Again, the shark is the well-known
scourge of the warmer belt of ocean, while the same zone of sea
constitutes--from its high temperature--a region through which the
whale never passes.

It is, besides, equally true of the animal as of the vegetable
kingdom, that every region of the globe has its own proper
inhabitants, different in species, for the most part, from those of
other regions. The animal life of the Old World is markedly different
from that of the New World in correspondent parallels, and under
conditions of climate which are in all important regards analogous.
Even when the genera, or families, are the same, the species are in
nearly all cases distinct. In yet higher measure, the animal life
of Australia differs from that of other divisions of the globe.
Whole orders of the animal world are wanting in Australian zoology,
while the vast majority of its animals belong to a division which is
altogether unrepresented in the continents of the Old World--that is,
the marsupial tribe. The difference is less strongly marked in the
case of the adjacent continents of the Northern Hemisphere than in
the instances of the lands lying south of the equator.

The natural distribution of animals has been importantly modified
by human agency. This is especially the case in regard to
those divisions of the mammalia which comprehend the domestic
quadrupeds--the horse, dog, ox, sheep, and others. Man has carried
these animals with him in his migrations from one region to another,
and has thus introduced new species (and even genera) into lands
where they were previously unknown. The horse, the ox, and the
common sheep, were unknown in the New World prior to the Spanish
discoveries of the Fifteenth and Sixteenth Centuries, but speedily
became naturalized there, and, in the case of the two first-named,
have long since reverted to a condition of nature. Wild horses roam
by thousands over the savannas and pampas of the western world.
Within a much more recent period, the domestic cattle of Europe have
been introduced into the Australian continent, and have multiplied
there to an extraordinary degree. Efforts are now making to introduce
into Australia both the camel of the Old World and the llama of South
America. The hare and the rabbit of Britain have become naturalized
in the more southwardly of the Australian colonies. Similar efforts
are at the present time directed to the naturalization in the
Australian rivers of the salmon and other fish that belong to the
streams and estuaries of Europe. What has been accomplished, in these
and many similar cases, by the direct efforts of man, has resulted,
in the case of many of the smaller animals, from his involuntary
agency, or from accidental causes. The vessel which conveys a cargo
of native produce from one region to a foreign shore has often
carried with it the germs of life (vegetable as well as animal),
besides, in numerous instances, the smaller members themselves of the
animal world. The insects that were originally confined to one region
have thus become distributed over wide areas of the globe.

A few other of the more obvious differences between the native
zoology of the Old and New Worlds may be adverted to with advantage.
Among carnivorous quadrupeds, the lion, tiger, leopard, panther,
and hyena are confined to the eastern half of the globe. In the
New World, the puma and the jaguar take respectively the places of
the lion and tiger of the Asiatic continent. Of the ruminants, the
camel, the giraffe, and the numerous antelopes are only found within
the Old World. Of the pachydermata, the elephant, the rhinoceros,
the hippopotamus, the horse, the zebra, and the ass are unknown
to the native zoology of the lands lying west of the Atlantic.
The elephant, and also the rhinoceros, belong to Asia and Africa
(the species being different in the case of either continent), the
hippopotamus is African only: the zebra (with its kindred species,
the quagga) is also peculiar to Africa. Both the horse and the ass
probably came originally from Asia. Of the Quadrumana, which are
numerously represented in the zoology of either hemisphere, the
species (and, in most cases, the genera) are distinct. Again, the
opossums of the New World belong to an order (the marsupial) which
is altogether unrepresented in the three continents of the Old
World, but which exhibits its fullest development in the Australian
division of the globe. Numerous other instances might be adduced, but
these will suffice. They serve to show that, in the case of animals
as of plants, particular regions constitute centres of particular
forms of life, which thence spread, within certain limits, around,
still leaving to each such region its strongly marked and typical
characteristics in such regards.

Europe exhibits, in its indigenous zoology, a character less marked
and distinctive than belongs to other divisions of the globe. This is
in some degree the result of its dense population, and the consequent
diminution in the number of wild species, but in a more special
manner results from its conditions of geographical form and position.
Europe is less a continent in itself than an outlying portion of
the vast and unbroken mass of the Asiatic continent. No strongly
marked feature intervenes between the plains of eastern Europe and
those of northern Asia, and within the continuous range of land that
extends, under the same parallels, from the Baltic Sea eastward to
the waters of the Pacific Ocean, the animal life exhibits for the
most part identity of species and genera. The differences between
them, in a vast number of instances, are merely varieties. Many of
the fur-bearing animals are common to all the lands that lie within
the Arctic circle, as many as twenty-seven species being native to
Europe, Asia, and North America alike.

The vast population of Europe has necessitated the rearing of the
domestic quadrupeds in vast numbers, and has been accompanied, in
numerous instances, by the extermination of the wild denizens of the
forest. It would seem from a passage in Herodotus (book vii, 125)
that the lion once frequented the woods of Macedonia. The wild boar,
bear, and the wolf were formerly natives of the British Islands, and
the last named animal has only been exterminated from within their
limits during the last hundred and fifty years. The beaver, long
since banished, was once common on the banks of the Welsh streams.
The fox is only preserved by artificial means, and for the purposes
of the chase. The wildcat, now rarely seen, and that only in the
remoter portions of the Scotch Highlands, was formerly common within
the English forests. The bustard, a bird now rarely seen, was once
met with in huge flights on the plains of Norfolk and Suffolk, while
huge fen-eagles frequented the marshy flats of the adjacent country.

[Illustration: Extinct Fishes, Mollusca, and Crustacea

1, Cephalaspis; 2, Pterichthys; 3, Coccocosteus; 4, Diplacanthus;
5, Holoptychius; 6. Osteolepis; 7, 12, 20, Gasteropods; 8, Crinoid;
9, Eurypterus; 10, 13, 15, 18, 19, Trilobites; 14, 16, 17, 23,
Cephalopods (Ammonites); 21, 22, Spirifers]

These are but few instances of the way in which human agency modifies
the distribution of animal life. On the continent, the extermination
of a particular species is of course more difficult; in numerous
cases is perhaps altogether impossible. The wolf inhabits the forests
of continental Europe, from the high tracts that adjoin the Alps and
the Pyrenees northward to the shores of the Baltic and White Seas.
The wild boar and the bear (three species of the latter--the brown
and the black in the wooded regions of the south, the white polar
bear in the extreme north) are still met with. The urus or wild ox of
the Lithuanian forests, regarded by naturalists as the progenitor of
our common domestic cattle, is even yet found to the eastward of the
Baltic.

Europe, however, has no one of the great families of mammalia that
can be looked on as peculiarly its own, or, in other words, as giving
it a distinctive zoology--like the antelopes of Southern and Western
Asia, the numerous pachyderms of the African continent, the llama
tribe of the New World, or the marsupials of Australia. Of the total
number of European mammalia, not exceeding a hundred and eighty, only
fifty-eight are peculiar to this continent, and none of the larger
quadrupeds is included among them.

The domesticated animals that are so numerously reared in every part
of Europe have probably been, in most cases, derived from indigenous
species. The urus or wild ox has been the parent of the common ox,
and the wild boar of the domestic pig; the goat, and, in the extreme
north, the reindeer, are also native to the European soil. The
moufflon of Sardinia was perhaps the ancestor of at least some of our
breeds of sheep.

The birds of Europe display a greater number and variety of species
than its land animals. This is especially the case in regard to
the family of aquatic birds--always most numerous in the higher
latitudes. More than thirty species of the duck tribe alone belong
to Northern Europe, some of them being common to the corresponding
latitudes of Asia and the New World. The stork and the crane (both of
migratory habits) belong to the maritime regions of Western Europe;
the pelican, the spoonbill, and the scarlet flamingo, to the shores
of the Mediterranean.

Europe has fewer species (as well as fewer individuals) of the
reptile kind than either of the other divisions of the globe--a
happy exemption, which is due to its temperate climate. The only
venomous serpents found in Europe are three species of viper, all of
them confined to its southern shores: the common viper of middle and
Northern Europe is innocuous. Lizards are common in the south, as
many as sixty-three species being enumerated.

The waters of Europe exhibit a rich variety of fish, a vast number
of them useful as to the food of man. Each of its inland seas has
its own peculiar tribes, the Mediterranean basin displaying the
richest diversity. Among the inhabitants of the Mediterranean are
several sharks, swordfish, dolphins, and six species of tunny--the
last-mentioned the largest of edible fish. The anchovy is peculiar
to the Mediterranean. The seas that lie around the British Islands
abound in the gregarious tribes of edible fish, as the cod, turbot,
mackerel, herring, pilchard, and many others. The stromming of the
Baltic is of like utility. The salmon frequents the estuaries and
river-mouths throughout the coast-line of Western Europe to the
northward of the Bay of Biscay, becoming more numerous as higher
latitudes are reached.

The generally temperate climate of Europe secures it, for the most
part, an exemption from the dense swarms of insect-life that belong
to warmer latitudes. Yet between eight or nine thousand species
are enumerated as native to the British Islands alone. The common
honey-bee is distributed all over southern and Central Europe, and
is probably indigenous. The locust is only an occasional visitor to
its shores, and belongs to the other side of the Mediterranean. The
silkworm was introduced from China toward the close of the Fifth
Century of our era.

Asia is rich in variety of animal life, and especially so as regards
the class mammalia, all the orders of which but two (the marsupials
and the edentata) are represented in its zoology. Of domesticated
quadrupeds, the camel, ox, goat, and sheep, among the ruminants, with
the horse, the ass, and the elephant, among pachyderms, are natives
of Asia. The camel, of which there are several species, all natives
of this continent, ranges from the shores of the Indian Ocean and Red
Sea as far north as Lake Baikal. The reindeer and elk frequent the
Siberian and Mongolian plains, migrating from the former locality
southward with the approach of winter. Numerous varieties of the
ox tribe (including the common ox, aurochs, buffalo, and yak) are
reared by the Tartar nations who inhabit the upland plains of the
interior. The antelope and deer tribe, of which there are a vast
number of species, belong to the western and southwestern regions
of the continent. The plains of Turkestan, to the eastward of the
Caspian, are perhaps the original country of the horse. The wild ass
is indigenous to Western Asia. The elephant is not found to the west
of India, nor to the north of the Himalaya Mountains; it belongs only
to the two Indian peninsulas, with Ceylon, and some of the smaller
islands of the Malay archipelago.

Among Asiatic carnivora are the lion, tiger, leopard, panther, and
ounce, of the cat genus: the wolf, hyena, and jackal, of the dog
tribe. Two species of bear are native to the Himalaya region (the
snow-bear, and the black-bear) and the polar bear belongs to the
Arctic coasts of the continent. The lion of Asia is now restricted to
the region which extends from the banks of the Euphrates and Tigris
to the western coasts of the Indian peninsula, including the deserts
of Mesopotamia, Persia, and Hindostan. The tiger has a more extensive
range, and inhabits all the middle and southeastern divisions of the
continent. The hyena, and also the jackal, belong to the western half
of Southern Asia; the wolf frequents the northern and western plains,
and is found in a range of country extending from Siberia, through
Turkestan, to the shores of the Mediterranean. The dog and the fox
are common all over the continent, and present numerous varieties; in
Kamtchatka and some parts of Siberia, the former animal is used as a
beast of burden, and is trained to draw the sledges over the vast
plains of ice and snow.

Numerous fur-bearing animals occur in Siberia, including the bear,
glutton, badger, wolf, fox, lynx, pole-cat, weasel, ermine, marten,
otter, sable, squirrel, beaver, hare, and the reindeer: many of these
belong also to the northern regions of Europe. The quadrumana are
found in the south and southeast of the continent and the islands
of the Malay archipelago; the largest and most remarkable among
them--the orang-outang--is restricted to the Malayan peninsula and
the islands of Borneo and Sumatra. The gibbons (or long-armed apes)
belong exclusively to Asia, and abound in its southeastern parts.
Bats are more numerous in the islands of the Asiatic archipelago than
on the continent.

Asia is less rich in variety of birds than in quadrupeds, but (with
the exception of the turkey, which is a native of the New World,
and of the guinea-fowl, which is African) all our domestic poultry
came originally from this division of the globe. Among its birds of
prey are eagles, vultures, falcons, owls, and hawks; but although
individually abundant, the species of these are not numerous.
Song-birds are numerous in western Asia, but are comparatively scarce
in the eastern division of the continent, where, however (especially
among the islands of the Malay archipelago and in China), birds of
beautiful plumage abound. The peacock is a native of India, the
golden pheasants belong to China, and the birds of paradise to New
Guinea and the adjacent islands.

Reptiles are less numerous in Asia than in some other parts of the
globe, but are sufficiently common in the southeastern parts of the
continent and the adjacent islands. The python (analogous to the
boa-constrictor of the New World) lurks in the morasses and swamps
of the East Indian islands; the cobras, with several other kinds of
venomous serpents, are found in the peninsulas of Eastern and Western
India. Both sea and fresh-water snakes are numerous. Among insects,
the locust is abundant in Western Asia, and commits the most dreadful
ravages among the crops in Syria, Persia, and Arabia.

Africa is yet richer than Asia in regard to the animal kingdom.
Of the total number of mammalia, more than a fourth occur in this
division of the Old World, and fewer than a sixth of the number
are common to Africa with either of the other continents. It is in
the carnivora, ruminants, pachyderms, and quadrumana, that African
zoology is more especially rich. Only one order, the marsupial, is
unrepresented in it. Nor is the varied abundance of animal life in
this region of the globe confined to species; the development of
individual life within its vast and almost boundless solitudes is yet
more characteristic.

Among African beasts of prey are the lion, panther, leopard, wolf,
fox, hyena, and jackal. Three varieties of the lion occur--that of
Northern Africa, of the countries on the Senegal, and of the extreme
south, toward the Orange River. There are two hyenas--one, the
spotted hyena, a native of Southern Africa; the other, the striped
hyena, indigenous to the more northerly parts of the continent, and
extending its range from Abyssinia and Barbary into Western Asia. The
wolf and the jackal belong to Northern Africa.

Of ruminants, there are no less than sixty species of the antelope
kind, which is especially abundant in Southern Africa. The camelopard
or giraffe is peculiar to this continent, and ranges from the banks
of the Gariep to the southern borders of the Sahara, but is not found
upon the western coasts. Several species of buffalo occur in a wild
state, and are most abundant within the outlying districts of the
Cape Colony. Sheep and goats abound in most parts of Africa, but are
probably not indigenous; both in Barbary and near the Cape of Good
Hope--at the opposite extremities of the continent--are found sheep
with broad, fat tails, so large as sometimes to weigh from ten to
thirty pounds. The camel of Africa is found all over its northern and
central regions.

Of the Pachydermata, or thick-skinned animals, the most
characteristic are the elephant, rhinoceros, and hippopotamus. The
elephant is found dispersed, in immense herds of from one to three
hundred, all over the wooded regions of Central and Southern Africa,
and the rhinoceros frequents principally the same localities. The
ivory supplied by the tusks of the former is one of the most valuable
native products of this quarter of the globe. The rhinoceros is
valued chiefly for its hide, which is made into shields and harness.
The hippopotamus is found in the upper part of the Nile valley,
and in all the lakes and rivers to the southward of the Great
Desert--including the Senegal, the Gambia, the Congo, and the Gariep.
This animal is peculiar to Africa; its teeth consist of the finest
ivory, for the sake of which it is hunted by the settlers of the
Cape. All three of these animals are used as food by the native races
of the South African interior.

The wild boar is found in some parts of Africa: the zebra, dow, and
quagga (all peculiar to this continent) abound in its central and
southern regions, particularly in the arid plains in the neighborhood
of the Orange River. Of the African Quadrumana, monkeys, baboons,
apes, and lemurs abound in the forests throughout every part of the
continent.

The chimpanzee of the western coasts (from the neighborhood of Sierra
Leone to the 10th parallel of S. latitude) makes nearer approach to
the human form than the orang-outang of Southeastern Asia, but is
surpassed in this respect by the gorilla, one of the largest of the
ape tribe, which inhabits the forests in the neighborhood of the
Gaboon River (0° 30′ N. lat.).

Bats are numerous in Africa, and most of the species inhabiting this
continent are peculiar to it. The Rodentia are also for the most
part of peculiar species; among them are hares, rabbits, jerboas,
squirrels, rats, and mice.

Among birds, the ostrich is confined to Africa, but ranges from its
southern extremity to the northern borders of the Great Desert. Its
feathers form a highly valued article of traffic, and the bird is
domesticated in many parts of Africa for the sake of procuring these
free from injury. The vulture (of which two species occur--one in
Northern Africa and the other in the neighborhood of the Cape) serves
here, as elsewhere, to preserve the air from impurity, by feeding
on the carcasses of animals, and divides with the hyena the office
of scavenger. The owl, falcon, and eagle are also enumerated among
the African birds of prey. Of gallinaceous birds Africa possesses
only the guinea-fowl; but the domestic poultry are numerously
reared, though not indigenous. The woods of tropical Africa abound
in numberless varieties of parrots and paroquets, besides many
other birds of bright and gaudy plumage--as the beautiful sun-birds
(which inhabit the western coasts, and are scarcely larger than the
humming-birds of America), together with the golden-colored orioles,
crested hoopoes, bee-eaters, and others. The honey-suckers, which
abound in the neighborhood of the Cape of Good Hope, feed entirely
upon the nectar or saccharine juice of the proteas and similar
plants. The sun-birds also occur in Southern Africa, and rival those
of India and the Gambia in the brilliancy of their colors.

Lizards, serpents, and reptiles of every description abound in
various parts of the African continent, though its general aridity,
throughout extensive regions, is less favorable to the development of
reptile life than in the case of correspondent latitudes elsewhere.
The crocodile inhabits all the large rivers of tropical Africa,
and is abundant in the lower portion of the Nile. The huge python,
sometimes twenty-two feet in length (though inferior in size to
the boa of the New World), is found in the swamps and morasses of
the western coast, and some species of the cobra (or hooded snake)
occur--chiefly in Southern Africa and on the shores of Guinea.
Insects abound, both in species and as individuals; among them is
the locust, which at intervals ravages all the northern parts of
the continent. But the termites, or white ants, of Western Africa
are the most celebrated members of the insect family, and effect
the most extraordinary destruction of furniture, books, clothes,
food, and everything that comes in their way. They build pyramidal
or conical nests, firmly cemented together, and divided into several
apartments--so large that at first sight they appear in the distance
like the villages of the natives. Both the bee and the wasp are
numerously distributed, but the bee has not been domesticated by any
of the native people of this continent; it is, however, reared by the
Arabs in Northern Africa.

The New World exhibits, through its vast prolongation in the
direction of latitude, a development of animal life which is almost
infinitely varied, and which differs in many essential regards from
that belonging to either of the continents of the Eastern Hemisphere.
Each of the nine orders of Mammalia is represented within its limits,
but many of the most attractive and valuable members of the animal
life of Asia and Africa are nevertheless wanting. America has neither
the elephant nor the camel; and neither the horse, the ox, the sheep,
nor the hog is indigenous to it.

The Carnivora of the New World are inferior in size, strength, and
ferocity to those of Asia and Africa. In place of the lion, America
has only the puma--a smaller and less powerful creature. The tiger
of Southern Asia is represented by the jaguar, a somewhat smaller
animal, but the most powerful of the American carnivora. In North
America, however, the numerous bears are distinguished by their
size and power, particularly the grizzly bear of the countries
which border upon the Rocky Mountains. The great white bear of the
polar regions is common to the high latitudes of either hemisphere.
North America, which is more strictly continental in extent than
the southern half of the New World, possesses, indeed, other types
of animal life which rival those of the Eastern Hemisphere. Among
these are the majestic bison, or American buffalo, together with
the elk or moose-deer, occupying a place similar to the reindeer of
Northern Europe and Asia. Several varieties of the deer-kind occur in
the northern half of the continent, together with the musk-ox, the
big-horned sheep, and the Rocky Mountain goat, which are peculiar to
this region.

The tapir and the peccary (an animal of the hog kind) range all over
the plains of South America, and the former is also found on the
coast of Central America. The puma (or cougar) occurs on the Mexican
Isthmus, and even as far northward as the 45th parallel, though found
most numerously in the southern half of the continent, where its
range extends to within a few degrees of the Strait of Magellan. The
jaguar is found in the coast regions of the Mexican Isthmus, as well
as the forests of Brazil and the adjoining regions of South America.
The lynx and the wolf belong to the colder tracts of North America.

The opossums are numerous in South America, and one species is met
with in the United States (Virginia); this family (Marsupialia) is
altogether absent from the eastern continent, but is fully developed
in the Australian division of the globe. The beaver abounds in the
colder latitudes of North America, together with a vast number
of other fur-bearing animals; as raccoons, martens, squirrels,
sea-otters, minks, muskrats, ermines, foxes, wolverines, and hares.

The llama tribe (comprehending, besides the llama, the alpaca,
vicuna, and others), is peculiar to South America. Its members are
found throughout the prolonged cordilleras of the western side
of that continent, from Chili to New Granada, dwelling always at
considerable heights above the level of the sea. The llama belongs
to the same order (Ruminantia) as the camel of the Old World, and
supplies some of the uses of that animal as a beast of burden. Prior
to the Spanish conquest, the llama was, indeed, the only beast of
burden which the natives of South America possessed. The tapir of the
same continent (an animal about the size of a small cow, and readily
distinguished by the downward bend of its snout) belongs to the
order of pachyderms. Two species of tapir, both of them peculiar to
that region, inhabit South America: a third species is native to the
island of Sumatra, and the adjacent Malay peninsula, in Southeastern
Asia.

The paca and cutia (or agouti) both of a family which is peculiar
to South America, take the place of the hare and rabbit of the Old
World, and belong, like those animals, to the order of rodents. Both
are used as food. The capybara and the common guinea-pig belong
to the same order. The chinchilla, another of the South American
rodents, valued for its delicate fur, is confined to the southern
portions of the Andes.

The sloth, ant-eater, and armadillo (all belonging to the order of
Edentata), are natives of South America.

Monkeys are exceedingly numerous all over that continent, especially
in the forests of Brazil. These, however, are different in species
from the monkeys of the Eastern Hemisphere; they are of smaller size,
and (with the exception of one nearly tailless species, found within
the forests of the Upper Amazons, within a very limited area) all
possess tails, mostly prehensile. None of the apes of the New World
makes the same approach to the human form which is found either
in the chimpanzee and gorilla of Western Africa or the orang of
Southeastern Asia. Toward the close of the day the howling monkeys
of Brazil make the woods resound with the most frightful cries; but
they are neither of large size nor of formidable powers. The family
of lemurs, so abundant in the eastern half of the globe, has not
a single representative in the New World. The marmosets, a family
confined to America, are numerous within the regions of the lower
Amazons.

Bats are very numerous in South America--more so than in any other
part of the world: among them is the large vampire-bat, to which
popular rumor has assigned the most bloodthirsty propensities, though
it is in reality perfectly harmless, feeding chiefly upon fruits,
with a few insects. All the American bats differ in species from
those of the eastern continent.

The ornithology of tropical America exceeds in splendor that of any
other region of the globe. Among the principal birds of prey are
several species of eagle, including the large white-headed eagle
of the United States, with vultures, hawks, kites, and owls. South
America, however, possesses the largest of the vulture tribe--the
gigantic condor of the Andes, which is confined to the higher peaks
of those mountains, bordering on the limits of the snowy region.
This is one of the most powerful and rapacious of birds, and commits
numerous ravages among the cattle, deer, and other animals. The
American ostrich, or emu, which dwells in the pampas of that region,
is also distinguished by its size. The turkey is American, and is the
only one of the domestic poultry that has been derived from the New
World.[9] The toucans, distinguished by their enormous bills, are
peculiar to America.

The humming-birds are peculiar to the western continent, and in the
tropical regions of America various birds of the most glittering
plumage, together with numberless fire-flies, lend an almost magical
charm to the aspect of nature. The range of the humming-birds extends
over the whole continent to the southward of the 42d parallel (north
lat.) and stretches upon the western side of North America as high
as the parallel of 60°--an evidence of the superior warmth which
distinguishes that side of the American continent.

Both reptiles and insects are abundant in the New World, which, owing
to its excessive moisture and dense vegetation, is peculiarly suited
to the development of these departments of the natural kingdom.
Venomous serpents are more numerous in tropical America than in any
other part of the globe. The rattlesnake occurs in both divisions
of the continent, within the parallels of 44° to the northward
and of 30° to the south of the equator; the huge boa-constrictor,
the largest of the serpent tribe, and the terror even of the
natives, dwells in the marshes and swamps of South America. Huge
caymans, iguanas, and other lizards, with numberless alligators and
water-snakes, abound in the rivers and temporary lagoons of the same
region.

Australia possesses a zoology which is more distinctive than that of
any other part of the world. Its native insects, reptiles, birds,
and land animals are all strikingly different from those of other
regions. The difference is greatest (or, at any rate, most obvious to
ordinary observation) in the case of its land animals. Two-thirds
of the Australian Mammalia belong to the marsupial order, and the
kangaroo, the largest member of that family, surpasses in size any
other of its indigenous quadrupeds. The Quadrumana, pachyderms, and
ruminants are altogether unrepresented, nor are there any of the
larger carnivora, the native dog (already verging on extinction)
being the chief among them. In the present day large numbers of the
Australian population are employed in rearing the domestic cattle of
Europe.

Australia forms in all regards a distinct zoological province, and
its insulated position has tended, in greater measure than is the
case with any other part of the world, to confine the distinguishing
features of its fauna within its own proper limits. The kangaroo
family includes numerous distinct species, from the full-sized
kangaroo down to the kangaroo-rat. But not a single one of the tribe
is found beyond the limits of Australia and the neighboring island
of Tasmania. The opossums, which belong to the same order, are only
found elsewhere in the New World. The most remarkable, however, among
the members of the Australian animal world is that popularly known
as the duck-bill (platypus, or ornithorynchus), which constitutes
a puzzle to the naturalist. This is a semi-aquatic creature, about
twelve or thirteen inches in length, with the body of an otter, a
bill like that of the duck, and which lays eggs. As one of the tribe
of Mammalia (to which, by its habits, it belongs), the platypus must
be classed under the head of Edentata; while, on the other hand,
as being oviparous, it may be regarded as belonging to a totally
distinct division of the animal world. The platypus frequents the
margins of creeks and pools, but remains mostly in the water, and
is only approached with difficulty, on account of its extreme
shyness. It has a coating of soft fur, variously shaded from black to
silver-gray.

Australia is distinguished by an extreme paucity of animal life
(in so far as land animals are concerned), in even a higher degree
than by the limited number of its native species. This is readily
explained by the generally arid character of its interior, the
scantiness of the native vegetation, and the consequent difficulty
of finding food. The traveler may frequently pass over many hundred
miles of country without meeting with a single quadruped, and
almost without finding the traces of a single land animal. Its
characteristics in the latter regard are undergoing, however, a rapid
change: the horse and the ox, introduced by the European settlers,
have in some cases reverted to a state of nature, and a herd of wild
cattle is now not infrequently met with beyond the ordinary limits of
the settlers’ range.

The ornithology of Australia is richer and more varied than other
branches of its animal life. Its chief distinction consists in the
vast proportion of suctorial birds--that is, such birds as derive
their principal support from sucking the nectar of flowers. This
peculiar organization, restricted in Africa, India, and America to
the smallest birds in creation, is here developed very generally,
and belongs to species that are as large as an English thrush. The
melliphagidæ, or honey-suckers, take the place of the humming-birds
of the New World: like all the family to which they belong, they
have the tongue terminating in a brush-like bundle of very slender
filaments, with which they suck the nectar of flowers.

Among the native Australian birds are a vast number of the parrot
tribe, comprehending paroquets, cockatoos, and others, many of them
distinguished by the most beautiful plumage. Of birds of prey,
eagles, falcons, and hawks are numerous, as well as several owls.
The largest among the feathered tribes of Australia is the emu, or
cassowary--a bird of the ostrich kind, though of rather inferior size
to the African ostrich. It is found chiefly in the southern portions
of the continent, but is yearly becoming scarcer under the advance of
the settlers.[10]

The scattered islands of the Pacific which, under the name of
Polynesia, constitute, in modern geography, one of the divisions of
the globe, can hardly be regarded as a distinct zoological region,
so obviously has their animal life been derived from other lands.
When first visited by European navigators, little more than a century
since, the largest quadruped found in the Polynesian groups was
the hog, which had probably accompanied the tribes of mankind by
whom they were peopled. The only other land animals were the dog,
mouse, and lizard, with a few rats. There were but few reptiles, or
insects; fleas, scorpions, cockroaches, and other vermin have since
been introduced.

The native fauna of New Zealand is hardly less scanty than that of
the smaller groups of the Pacific. The largest animal found there
by the first European settlers was the pig, which is probably not
indigenous, though it has reverted to a state of nature. Dogs are the
only beasts of prey: a few rats and mice complete the list of its
Mammalia. There are no marsupials, though New Zealand is nearer by
many thousand miles to Australia than to any of the other continents.
The feathered tribes are equally few in number, but they include
at least one species--now fast approaching extinction--the apteryx
(wingless bird), which has no representative elsewhere. The moa, a
bird of the ostrich kind, appears to have become extinct within the
Nineteenth Century.




  CETACEA
  --PETER MARK ROGET


Remarkable exemplifications of the law of uniformity of organic
structure are furnished by the family of the Cetacea, which includes
the whale, the cachalot, the dolphin, and the porpoise, and exhibits
the most elementary forms of the type of the Mammalia, of which they
represent the early or rudimental stage of development. Here, as
before, we have to seek these first elements among the inhabitants
of the water: for whenever, in our progress through the animal
kingdom, we enter upon a new division, aquatic tribes are always
found to compose the lowest links of the ascending chain. Here,
also, we observe organic development proceeding with more rapidity,
and raising structures of greater dimensions in aquatic than in
terrestrial animals. The order Cetacea comprises by far the largest
animals which inhabit the globe. Whatever may have been the magnitude
of those huge monsters which once moved in the bosom of the primeval
ocean, or stalked with gigantic strides across antediluvian plains,
and whose scattered remains bear fearful testimony of the convulsions
of a former world, certain it is that, at the present day, the whales
of the northern seas are the most colossal of the living animal
structures existing on the surface of this planet.

A cursory survey of the organization of the tribes belonging to
this semi-amphibious family will impress us with the resemblance
they bear to fishes; for they present the same oval outline of the
body, the same compact form of the trunk, which is united with the
head without an intervening neck; the same fin-like shape of the
external instruments of motion and the same enormous expansion and
prolongation of the tail, which is here also, as in fishes, the chief
agent in progression. With all this agreement in external characters,
their internal economy is conducted upon a totally different plan;
for although constantly inhabiting the ocean, their vital organs are
so constructed as to admit of their breathing only the air of the
atmosphere, and the consequences which flow from this difference are
of great importance. The necessity of aerial respiration compels them
to rise, at short intervals, to the surface of the water; and this
air, with which they fill their lungs in respiration, gives their
bodies the buoyant force that is required to facilitate their ascent,
and supersedes the necessity of a swimming bladder, an organ which is
so useful to the fish.

With the intent of diminishing still further their specific gravity,
Nature has provided that a large quantity of oily fluid shall
be collected under the skin, a provision which answers, also,
the purpose of preserving the vital warmth of the body. A great
accumulation of this lighter substance is formed on the upper part
of the head, apparently with a view to facilitate the elevation to
the surface of the blowing hole, or orifice of the nostrils, which is
placed there.[11]

Another peculiarity of conformation, in which the Cetacea differ from
fishes, and which has also an obvious relation to their peculiar
mode of breathing, is in the form of the tail, which, instead of
being compressed laterally and inflected from side to side, as
in fishes, is flattened horizontally, and strikes the water in a
vertical direction, thereby giving the body a powerful impulsion,
either toward the surface, when the animal is constrained to rise, or
downward, when, by diving, it hastens to escape from danger.

All the essential and permanent parts of the skeleton of vertebrated
animals, that is, the spinal column, and its immediate dependencies,
the skull, the caudal prolongation, and the ribs are found in
that of the Cetacea. The thorax is carried very much forward,
especially in the whale, and the neck is so short as to be scarcely
recognizable: for the object of the conformation is here, as in
that of the fish, to allow free scope for the movements of the tail
and ample space for the lodgment of its muscles. For the purpose
of giving greater power and more extensive attachment to these
muscles, the transverse processes of the dorsal and lumbar vertebræ
are expanded both in length and breadth, and, being situated
horizontally, offer no impediment to the vertical flexure of the
spine. For the same reason the ribs are continued in a line with the
transverse processes, and articulated with their extremities, thus
giving still further breadth to the trunk.

As there is a total absence of hinder extremities, so there is no
enlargement of any of the vertebræ corresponding to a sacrum, and
the caudal vertebræ are uninterrupted continuations of those of the
trunk. They develop, however, parts which are met with only among
fishes and reptiles, namely, arches composed of inferior leaves
and spinous processes, inclosing and giving protection to a large
artery. Although the bones of the legs do not exist, yet there are
found, in the hinder and lower part of the trunk, concealed in the
flesh, and quite detached from the spine, two small bones, apparently
corresponding to pelvic bones, for the presence of which no more
probable reason can be assigned than the tendency to preserve an
analogy with the more developed structures of the same type.

A similar adherence to the law of uniformity in the plan of
construction of all the animals belonging to the same class, is
strikingly shown in the conformation of the bones of the anterior
extremities of the Cetacea; for, although they present, externally,
no resemblance to the leg and foot of a quadruped, being fashioned
into fin-like members, with a flat, oval surface for striking the
water, yet, when the bones are stripped of the thick integument which
covers them and conceals their real form, we find them exhibiting
the same divisions into carpal and metacarpal bones, and phalanges
of fingers, as exist in the most highly developed organization, not
merely of a quadruped, but also of a monkey, and even of man.




  HUNTING AND FISHING OF ANIMALS
  --FRÉDÉRIC HOUSSAY


The search for food has necessarily been the cause of the earliest
industries among animals. It is easy to understand that the herbivora
need little ingenuity in seeking nourishment; they are so superior
to their prey that they can obtain it and feed on it by the sole
fact of an organization adapted to its assimilation. They are, it is
true, at the mercy of circumstances over which they have no control,
and which lead to famine. The carnivora also may have to suffer from
the absence of prey, but even in the most favorable seasons, and
in the regions where the animals on which they live abound, it is
necessary for them to develop a special activity to obtain possession
of beings who are suspicious, prompt in flight, and as fleet as
themselves. Thus it is among these that we expect to find the art of
hunting most cultivated; especially if we put aside the more grossly
carnivorous of them, whose whole organization is adapted for rapid
and effective results.

The most rudimentary method of hunting in ambush is simply to
take advantage of some favorable external circumstance to obtain
concealment, and then to await the approach of the prey. Some animals
place themselves behind a tuft of grass, others thrust themselves
into a thicket, or hang on to the branch of a tree in order to fall
suddenly on the victim who innocently approaches the perfidious
ambush. The crocodile, as described by Sir Samuel Baker, conceals
himself by his skill in plunging noiselessly. On the bank a group of
birds have alighted. They search the mud for insects or worms, or
simply approach the stream to drink or bathe. In spite of his great
size and robust appetite the crocodile does not disdain this slight
dish; but the least noise, the least wrinkle on the surface of the
water would cause the future repast to vanish. The reptile plunges,
the birds continue without suspicion to come and go. Suddenly there
emerges before them the huge open jaw armed with formidable teeth. In
the moment of stupor and immobility which this unforeseen apparition
produces a few imprudent birds have disappeared within the reptile’s
mouth, while the others fly away. In the same sly and brutal manner
he snaps up dogs, horses, oxen, and even men who come to the river to
drink.

One of the most dangerous ambushes which can be met on the road by
animals who resort to a spring is that prepared by the python. This
gigantic snake hangs by his tail to the branch of a tree and lets
himself droop down like a long creeper. The victim who comes within
his reach is seized, enrolled, pounded in the knots which the snake
forms around him. It is not necessary to multiply examples of this
simple and widespread method of hunting.

Not content with utilizing the natural arrangements they meet with,
there are animals which construct genuine ambushes, acting thus like
man, who builds in the middle or on the edge of ponds, cabins in
which to await wild ducks, or who digs in the path of a lion a hole
covered with trunks of trees, at the bottom of which he may kill
the beast without danger. Certain insects practice this method of
hunting. The fox, for instance, so skilful a hunter in many respects,
constructs an ambush when hunting hares.

The larva of the tiger beetle (Cicindela campestris) constructs a
hole about the size of a feather quill, disposed vertically, and of
a depth, enormous for its size, of forty centimetres. It maintains
itself in this tube by arching its supple body along the walls at
a height sufficient for the top of its head to be level with the
surface of the soil, and to close the opening of the hole. A little
insect--an ant, a young beetle, or something similar--passes. As soon
as it begins to walk on the head of the larva, the latter letting go
its hold of the wall allows itself to fall to the bottom of the trap,
dragging its victim with it. In this narrow prison it is easily able
to obtain the mastery over its prey, and to suck out the liquid parts.

The Staphilinus Cæsareus acts with still greater shrewdness; not
only is his pit more perfect, but he takes care to remove all
traces of preceding repasts which might render the place obviously
one of carnage. He chooses a stone, beneath which he hollows a
cylindro-conical hole with extremely smooth walls. This hole is
not to serve as a trap, that is to say that the proprietor has no
intention of causing any pedestrian to roll to the bottom. It is
simply a place of concealment in which he awaits the propitious
moment. No creature is more patient than this insect, and no delay
discourages him. As soon as some small animal approaches his
hiding-place he throws himself on it impetuously, kills it, and
devours it. Near his ditch he has hollowed a second of a much coarser
character, the walls of which have not been smoothed with the same
care. One here sees elytra and claws piled up; they are the hard and
horny parts which he has not been able to eat. The heap in this ditch
is not then an alimentary store. It is the _oubliette_ in which the
Staphilinus buries the remains of his victims. If he allowed them to
accumulate around his hole all pedestrians would come to fear this
spot and to avoid it. It would be like the dwelling of a polypus,
which is marked by the numerous carapaces of crabs and shells which
strew the neighborhood.

The ambuscade of the ant-lion is classic; it does not differ greatly
from the others. He excavates a conical pitfall, in which he conceals
himself, and seizes the unfortunate ants and other insects whom
ill-chance causes to roll into it.

A variety of ambush which brings the baited ambush method of hunting
to considerable perfection lies in inciting the prey to approach the
hiding-place instead of trusting to chance to bring it there. In such
circumstances man places some allurement in the neighborhood--that is
to say, one of the foods preferred by the desired victim, or at least
some object which recalls the form of that food, as, for example, an
artificial fly to obtain possession of certain fishes.

It is curious to find that fish themselves utilize this system; it is
the method adopted by the angler and the Uranoscopus. The Uranoscopus
scaber lives in the Mediterranean. At the end of his lower jaw there
is developed a mobile and supple filament which he is able to use
with the greatest dexterity. Concealed in the mud, without moving and
only allowing the end of his head to emerge, he agitates and vibrates
his filament. The little fishes who prowl in the neighborhood,
delighted with the sight of this apparent worm, regarding it as a
destined prey, throw themselves on to it, but before they are able to
bite and recognize their error they have disappeared in the mouth of
the proprietor of the bait.

The angler (Lophius piscatorius) has not usurped his rather
paradoxical name. He retires to the midst of the sea-weed and algæ.
On his body and all round his head he bears fringed appendages which,
by their resemblance to the leaves of marine plants, aid the animal
to conceal himself. The color of his body also does not contrast
with neighboring objects. From his head arise three movable filaments
formed by three spines detached from the upper fin. He makes use
of the anterior one, which is the longest and most supple. Working
in the same way as the Uranoscopus, the angler agitates his three
filaments, giving them as much as possible the appearance of worms,
and thus attracting the little fish on which he feeds.

All these methods of hunting or of fishing by surprises are for the
most part practiced by the less agile species which can not obtain
their prey by superior fleetness. Midway between these two methods
may be placed that which consists in surprising game when some
circumstance has rendered it motionless. Sometimes it is sleep which
places it at the mercy of the hunter, whose art in this case consists
in seeking out its dwelling. Sometimes he profits by the youth of the
victim, like all bird-nesters, whose aim is to eat the eggs or to
devour the young while still incapable of flying. The animals who eat
birds’ eggs are numerous both among mammals and reptiles, as well as
among birds themselves.

The alligator of Florida and of Louisiana delights in this chase.
He seeks in particular the great boat-tail (Quiscalus major) which
nests in the reeds at the edge of marshes and ponds. When the young
have come out and are expecting from their parents the food which
the chances of the hunt may delay, they do not cease chirping and
calling by their cries. But the parents are not alone in hearing
these appeals. They may also strike the ears of the alligator, who
furtively approaches the imprudent singers. With a sudden stroke of
his tail he strikes the reeds and throws into the water one or more
of the hungry young ones, who are then at his mercy.

The animals who feed on species living in societies either seize
on their prey when isolated or when all the members of the colony
are united in their city. A search for the nest is necessary in
the case of creatures who are very small in comparison with the
hunter, as in the case of ants and the ant-eater. But the ant-eater
possesses a very long and sticky tongue, which renders the capture
of these insects extremely easy; when he finds a frequented passage
it is enough to stretch out his tongue; all the ants come of their
own accord and place themselves on it, and when it is sufficiently
charged he withdraws it and devours them. The African Orycteropus,
who is also a great eater of ants and especially of termites, is
equally aided by a very developed tongue; but he has less patience
than the ant-eater, and he adds to this resource other proceedings
which render the hunt more fruitful and enable him to obtain a very
large number of insects at one time. Thanks to his keenness of scent
he soon discovers an ant-path bearing the special and characteristic
odor which these Hymenoptera leave behind them, and he follows the
track which leads to their nest. On arriving there, without troubling
himself about the scattered insects that prowl in the neighborhood,
he sets himself to penetrate into the midst of the dwelling, and with
his strong claws hollows out a passage which enables him to gain
access. On the way he pierces walls, breaks down floors, gathering
here and there some fugitives, and arrives at last at the centre,
in which millions of animals swarm. He then swallows them in large
mouthfuls and retires, leaving behind him a desert and a ruin in
the spot before occupied by a veritable palace, full of prodigious
activity.

The colonies are not only exposed to the devastations of those who
feed on their members; they have other enemies in the animals who
covet their stores of food. The most inveterate robber of bees is the
nocturnal Death’s Head moth. When he has succeeded in penetrating the
hive the stings of the proprietors who throw themselves on him do not
trouble him, thanks to his thick fleece of long hairs which the sting
can not penetrate; he makes his way to the cells, rips them open,
gorges himself with honey, and causes such havoc that in Switzerland,
in certain years when these butterflies were abundant, numbers of
hives have been found absolutely empty. Many other marauders and
of larger size, such as the bear, also spread terror among these
laborious insects and empty their barns. No animal is more crafty
than the raven, and the fabulist who wished to make him a dupe was
obliged to oppose to him the very cunning fox in order to render the
tale fairly life-like. A great number of stories are told concerning
the raven’s cleverness, and many of them are undoubtedly true. There
is no bolder robber of nests. He swallows the eggs and eats the
little ones of the species who can not defend themselves against him;
he even seeks the eggs of sea-gulls on the coast; but in this case
he must use cunning, for if he is discovered it means a serious
battle. On the coast also the raven seeks to obtain possession of
the hermit-crab. This crustacean dwells in the empty shells of
gasteropods. At the least alarm he retires within this shell and
becomes invisible, but the bird advances with so much precaution
that he is often able to seize the crab before he has time to hide
himself. If the raven fails he turns the shell over and over until
the impatient crustacean allows a claw to emerge; he is then seized
and immediately devoured.

If there is a question of hunting larger game like a hare, the raven
prefers to take an ally. They start him at his burrow and pursue him
flying. In spite of his proverbial rapidity the hare is scarcely able
to flee more than two hundred yards. He succumbs beneath vigorous
blows on his skull from the beaks of his assailants. During winter,
in the high regions of the Alps, when the soil is covered with snow,
this chase is particularly fruitful for ravens. The story is told of
that unfortunate hare who had hollowed out in the snow a burrow with
two entrances. Two of these birds having recognized his presence, one
entered one hole in order to dislodge the hare, the other awaited him
at the other opening to batter his head with blows from his beak and
kill him before he had time to gain presence of mind.

Rooks sometimes hunt in burrows by ingeniously concerted operations.
Mr. Bernard has described the interesting way in which the rook hunts
voles or field-mice in Thuringia. His curiosity was excited by the
way in which numerous rooks stood about a field cawing loudly. In a
few days this was explained: the field was covered with rooks; the
original assemblage had been calling together a mouse-hunt, which
could only be successfully carried out by a large number of birds
acting in conjunction. By diligently probing the ground and blocking
up the network of runs, the voles, one or more at a time, were
gradually driven into a corner. The hunt was very successful, and no
more voles were seen in that field during the winter.

Other animals are not easily discouraged by the swiftness of their
prey; they count on their own resistance in order to tire the game;
some of them also manage their pursuit in the most intelligent way,
so as to preserve their own strength while the tracked animal’s
strength goes on diminishing until exhaustion and fatigue place him
at their mercy.

Mammals especially, such as dogs, wolves, and foxes, exercise this
kind of chase; it is, exactly, the coursing which man has merely had
to direct for his own benefit. Wild dogs pursue their prey united in
immense packs. They excite each other by barking while they frighten
the game and half paralyze his efforts. No animal is agile and strong
enough to be sure of escaping. They surround him and cut off his
retreat in a most skilful manner; gazelles and antelopes, in spite
of their extreme nimbleness and speed, are caught at last; boars are
rapidly driven into a corner; their vigorous defence may cost the
life of some of the assailants, but they nevertheless become the prey
of the band who rush on to the quarry. In Asia wild dogs do not fear
even to attack the tiger.

Wolves hunt also in considerable bands. Their audacity, especially
when pressed by hunger in the bad season, is well known. In time
of war they follow armies, to attack stragglers and to devour the
dead. In Siberia they pursue sledges on the snow with terrible
perseverance, and the pack is not delayed by the massacre of those
who are shot. A few stop to devour at once their fallen comrades,
while the others continue the pursuit.

Besides these brutal chases wolves seem able to exercise a genuine
feint. Sometimes it is a couple who hunt in concert. If they meet
a flock, as they are well aware that the dog will bravely defend
the animals intrusted to him, that he is vigilant, and that his
keen scent will bring him on them much sooner than the shepherd,
it is with him that they first occupy themselves. The two wolves
approach secretly; then suddenly one of them unmasks and attracts
the attention of the dog, who rushes after him with such ardor
that he fails to perceive that in the meantime the second thief
has seized the sheep and dragged it into the wood. The dog finally
renounces his pursuit of the fugitive and returns to his flock. Then
the two confederates join each other and share the prey. In other
circumstances it is a wolf who hunts with his female. When they wish
to obtain possession of a deer, whose robust flight may last a long
time, one of the couple, the male, for example, pursues him and
directs his chase in such a way that the game must pass by a place
where the female wolf is concealed. She then takes up the chase while
the male reposes. It is an organized system of relays. The strength
of the deer becomes necessarily exhausted; he can not resist the
animation shown by his active foe, and is seized and killed. Then the
other wolf calmly approaches the place of the feast to share his part
of the booty.

The fox also successfully uses this method of coursing with relays.

It has often been repeated that man is the only creature sufficiently
intelligent to utilize as weapons exterior objects like a stone or
a brick; in a much greater degree, therefore, it was said, was he
the only creature capable of striking from afar with a projectile.
Nevertheless creatures so inferior as fish exhibit extreme skill in
the art of reaching their prey at a distance. Several act in this
way. There is first the Toxotes jaculator, who lives in the rivers of
India. His principal food is formed by the insects who wander over
the leaves of aquatic plants. To wait until they fell into the water
would naturally result in but meagre fare. To leap at them with one
bound is difficult, not to mention that the noise would cause them to
flee. The Toxotes knows a better trick than that. He draws in some
drops of water, and, contracting his mouth, projects them with so
much force and certainty that they rarely fail to reach the chosen
aim, and to bring into the water all the insects he desires. Other
animals also squirt various liquids, sometimes in attack, but more
especially in defence. The Cephalopods, for example, emit their ink,
which darkens the water and allows them to flee. Certain insects
exude bitter or fœtid liquids; but in all these cases, and in others
that are similar, the animal finds in his own organism a secretion
which happens to be more or less useful to his conservation. The
method of the Toxotes is different. It is a foreign body which he
takes up, and it is an intended victim at which he takes aim and
which he strikes; his movements are admirably co-ordinated to obtain
a precise effect.

Another fish, the Chelinous of Java, also acts in this manner. He
generally lives in estuaries. It is, therefore, a brackish water
which he takes up and projects by closing his gills and contracting
his mouth; he can thus strike a fly at a distance of several feet.
Usually he aims sufficiently well to strike it at the first blow,
but sometimes he fails. Then he begins again until he has succeeded,
which shows that his movements are not those of a machine. He knows
what he is doing, what effect ought to be produced, and whether this
desired result has happened, and he perseveres until the insect has
fallen. These facts are unquestioned; the Chinese preserve these
curious fish in jars, and amuse themselves by making them carry on
this little exercise. Many observers have witnessed and described it.




  THE DEATH-FEIGNING INSTINCT
  --W. H. HUDSON


Most people are familiar with the phenomenon of “death-feigning,”
commonly seen in coleopterous insects and in many spiders. This
highly curious instinct is also possessed by some vertebrates.
In insects, it is probably due to temporary paralysis occasioned
by sudden concussion, for when beetles alight abruptly, though
voluntarily, they assume that appearance of death which lasts for a
few moments. Some species, indeed, are so highly sensitive that the
slightest touch, or even a sudden menace, will instantly throw them
into this motionless, death-simulating condition. Curiously enough,
the same causes which produce this trance in slow-moving species,
like those of Scarabæus, for example, have a precisely contrary
effect on species endowed with great activity. Rapacious beetles,
when disturbed, scuttle quickly out of sight, and some water-beetles
spin about the surface, in circles or zigzag lines, so rapidly as
to confuse the eye. The common long-legged spiders (Pholcus) when
approached draw their feet together in the middle of the web, and
spin the body round with such velocity as to resemble a whirligig.

Certain mammals and birds also possess the death-simulating instinct,
though it is hardly possible to believe that the action springs
from the same immediate cause in vertebrates and in insects. In the
latter, it appears to be a purely physical instinct, the direct
result of an extraneous cause, and resembling the motions of a plant.
In mammals and birds, it is evident that violent emotion, and not the
rough handling experienced, is the final cause of the swoon.

Passing over venomous snakes, skunks, and a few other species in
which the presence of danger excites only anger, fear has a powerful,
and in some cases a disabling, effect on animals; and it is this
paralyzing effect of fear on which the death-feigning instinct, found
only in a few widely separated species, has probably been built up
by the slow cumulative process of natural selection.

I have met with some curious instances of the paralyzing effect of
fear. I was told by some hunters in an outlying district of the
pampas of its effect on a jaguar they startled, and which took
refuge in a dense clump of dry reeds. Though they could see it, it
was impossible to throw the lasso over its head, and after vainly
trying to dislodge it, they at length set fire to the reeds. Still it
refused to stir, but lay with head erect, fiercely glaring at them
through the flames. Finally, it disappeared from sight in the black
smoke; and when the fire had burned itself out, it was found, dead
and charred, in the same spot.

On the pampas, the Gauchos frequently take the black-necked swan by
frightening it. When the birds are feeding or resting on the grass,
two or three men or boys on horseback go quietly to leeward of the
flock, and, when opposite to it, suddenly wheel and charge it at full
speed, uttering loud shouts, by which the birds are thrown into such
terror that they are incapable of flying, and are quickly despatched.

I have also seen Gaucho boys catch the silver-bill (Lichenops
perspicillata) by hurling a stick or stone at the bird, then rushing
at it, when it sits perfectly still, disabled by fear, and allows
itself to be taken. I myself once succeeded in taking a small bird of
another species in the same way.

Among mammals, our common fox (Canis azaræ), and one of the opossums
(Didelphys azaræ), are strangely subject to the death-simulating
swoon. For it does indeed seem strange that animals so powerful,
fierce and able to inflict such terrible injury with their teeth
should also possess this safeguard, apparently more suited to weak
inactive creatures that can not resist or escape from an enemy and
to animals very low down in the scale of being. When a fox is caught
in a trap or run down by dogs, he fights savagely at first, but by
and by relaxes his efforts, drops on the ground and apparently yields
up the ghost. The deception is so well carried out that dogs are
constantly taken in by it, and no one, not well acquainted with this
clever trickery of nature, but would at once pronounce the creature
dead, and worthy of some praise for having perished in so brave a
spirit.

Now, when in this condition of feigning death, I am sure that the
animal does not altogether lose consciousness. It is exceedingly
difficult to discover any evidence of life in the opossum; but when
one withdraws a little way from the feigning fox, and watches him
very attentively, a slight opening of the eye may be detected; and
finally, when left to himself, he does not recover and start up like
an animal that has been stunned, but slowly and cautiously raises his
head first, and only gets up when his foes are at a safe distance.
Yet I have seen Gauchos, who are very cruel to animals, practice the
most barbarous experiments on a captive fox without being able to
rouse it into exhibiting any sign of life. This has greatly puzzled
me, since if death-feigning is simply a cunning habit, the animal
could not suffer itself to be mutilated without wincing. I can only
believe that the fox, though not insensible, as its behavior on
being left to itself seems to prove, yet has its body thrown by
extreme terror into that benumbed condition which simulates death,
and during which it is unable to feel the tortures practiced upon it.

The swoon sometimes actually takes place before the animal has been
touched, and even when the exciting cause is at a considerable
distance. I was once riding with a Gaucho, when we saw, on the open
level ground before us, a fox, not yet fully grown, standing still
and watching our approach. All at once it dropped, and when we came
up to the spot it was lying stretched out, with eyes closed, and
apparently dead. Before passing on, my companion, who said it was not
the first time he had seen such a thing, lashed it vigorously with
his whip for some moments, but without producing the slightest effect.

The death-feigning instinct is possessed in a very marked degree
by the spotted tinamou or common partridge of the pampas (Nothura
maculosa). When captured, after a few violent struggles to escape, it
drops its head, gasps two or three times, and, to all appearances,
dies. If, when you have seen this, you release your hold, the eyes
open instantly, and, with startling suddenness and a noise of wings,
it is up and away and beyond your reach forever. Possibly, while your
grasp is on the bird, it does actually become insensible, though
its recovery from that condition is almost instantaneous. Birds
when captured do sometimes die in the hand, purely from terror.
The tinamou is excessively timid, and sometimes when birds of this
species are chased--for Gaucho boys frequently run them down on
horseback--and when they find no burrows or thickets to escape into,
they actually drop dead on the plain. Probably, when they feign death
in their captor’s hand, they are in reality very near to death.




  BIRDS
  --J. ARTHUR THOMSON


Birds are in some ways the highest of the vertebrate animals. They
represent the climax of that passage from water to land which the
backboned series illustrates. Their skeleton is more modified from
the general type than that of mammals; their arrangements for
locomotion, breathing, and nutrition are certainly not less perfect;
their body temperature, higher than that of any other animals, is an
index to the intense activity of their general life; their habitual
and adaptive intelligence is familiarly great, while in range of
emotion and sense impressions they must be allowed the palm. It
is, in fact, only when we emphasize the development of the nervous
system, and the closeness of connection between mother and offspring,
that the mammals are seen to have a right to their pre-eminence over
birds. Birds and mammals represent two divergent lines of progress,
and stand in no close connection, but the affinities between birds
and reptiles are sufficiently marked to warrant their being included
in a common class (Sauropsida), in contrast to the amphibians and
fishes (Ichthyopsida) on the one hand, and Mammalia on the other.
Among the numerous points of difference which separate birds from
their nearest relations, the reptiles, and from mammals, the
following may be noticed:

  ------------------------+-----------------------+------------------+
                          |       REPTILES        |       BIRDS      |
  Covering                | Scales or scutes      | Feathers         |
  Number of fingers       | Always more than three| At most three    |
    ”    ”  skull condyles| One                   | One              |
  Number of aortic arches | At least two          | One, right       |
  Diaphragm               | Only incipient        | Only incipient   |
  Blood                   | Cold                  | Hottest          |
  Position of optic lobes | On top of brain       | At sides of brain|
  Parturition             | Ovi- or viviparous    | Oviparous        |
  ------------------------+-----------------------+------------------+

              ------------------------+----------------------
                                      |       MAMMALS
              Covering                | Hair
              Number of fingers       | Five or fewer
                ”    ”  skull condyles| Two
              Number of aortic arches | One, left
              Diaphragm               | Complete
              Blood                   | Warm
              Position of optic lobes | Covered up
              Parturition             | Except two viviparous
              ------------------------+----------------------


But those contrasts are only a few of the less technical selected
from Professor Huxley’s masterly comparison of the three classes.
To appreciate the full extent of the resemblances and differences
between birds and reptiles, and the contrast between both and
mammals, the reader must consult Huxley’s _Anatomy of Vertebrate
Animals_.

Most birds use their wings in flight, the feather-covered arms being
raised and depressed with great rapidity by means of the breast
muscles. Every one who has watched birds is familiar with the marked
differences in rapidity and mode of flight. It has been calculated
that a common average of rapidity is about 40 to 60 feet per second,
but records of the feats of carrier-pigeons, etc., certainly greatly
surpass this. It seems probable that strong-winged birds, like
eagles, can cover about 80 feet in a second. Buffon noted that they
disappeared from sight in about three minutes. Strong birds, like
the albatross and birds of prey, can not fly very rapidly, but can
sustain their exertions for long periods, while many other birds
rarely take prolonged flights, except during migration. The ostrich
uses its wings to help it along in its rapid race; some aquatic
birds, like the steamer-duck, use them as paddles, auxiliary to
their legs. On the ground, birds vary greatly in rate and manner of
progression: the swift strides of the ostrich, the rapid run of the
partridge, the hopping of the sparrow are well-known illustrations of
different gaits. That many birds are expert divers and climbers is
also a familiar fact.

The great activity of birds is associated with very efficient
respiration. Expiration, or the expulsion of used air, is managed by
the contraction of breast and abdominal muscles, which compress the
inclosed cavities and force the air from the sacs and lungs. When
these muscles are relaxed the cavities again elastically expand, and
fresh air rushes in by the windpipe to lungs and air sacs.

With few exceptions, birds have a vocal organ, and are able to
produce more or less variable sounds. The organ is, however, wanting
in the running birds, such as the ostrich and the American vultures.
The sounds produced are almost as varied as the different kinds
of birds, and an expert ornithologist has little difficulty in
identifying a great number of forms by their distinctive noises. That
some chirp and others scream, that chattering describes the language
of many and croaking that of others, that some boom and others
bark, that the crows caw, and the laughing jackass laughs, that the
mocking-bird imitates, and the parrot becomes able to articulate, and
above all that the lark trills and the nightingale truly sings, are
well-known illustrations of the variety of bird language. The weird
cry of the curlew or whaup, the melancholy voice of the sea-mew,
the gabble of ducks, the crowing of the cock, the soft cooing of the
dove, the hoarse voice of the corncrake, the ecstatic melody of the
bobolink, the cheerful notes of the blackbird, the educated music of
the canary, are again a random selection of instances from an almost
infinite medley. It is among the so-called perchers, songsters, or
Insessores that we find song really developed, and that for most part
in the males, and in highest degree at breeding time. Though the
notes are not musically pure, many songs of birds have been expressed
in musical notation, and every one is familiar with imitations in
word form. Singing is an unbidden expression of emotional energy. It
is most marked at the high tide of sexual emotion during the breeding
season. It is best, sometimes solely, developed in the males, who use
their powers to attract the females, and often vie with one another
in so doing. In other cases the note is obviously used as language,
expressing alarm and the like, for that some birds are able by voice
to convey impressions to one another is indubitable. In so far as the
song is an instrument and expression of sexual attraction, it fails
to be included among those powers which have been strengthened and
developed by sexual selection.

After the strain of the reproductive period, or sometimes at
the low ebb of mid-winter, the old feathers drop off, and birds
undergo annual moult. The use of this in replacing breakage, and in
furnishing a complete machinery for the flight of migration, is very
evident; the cause is not yet sufficiently investigated. Moulting
obviously presents some analogies with skin-casting and hair-shedding
in other animals, and must be associated with some deep-seated
constitutional change, such as its connection with the end of the
breeding season suggests. Besides this annual growth of new feathers,
many birds exhibit double and some triple moulting. The ptarmigan,
for instance, changes its suit three times in the year, moulting
after breeding into gray, changing this for white as the winter
sets in, and acquiring in spring a third and most attractive set of
feathers. In association with sexual attraction many male birds seem
to undergo a partial moult, as the result of which they acquire those
special decorations which are the index of a reproductive climax.

Birds usually pair in springtime, but to this rule there are many
exceptions. Fertilization is internal, and all birds are oviparous.
The number of eggs is often in inverse proportion to the size of the
bird. Several, such as the apteryx, lay only one; the doves and birds
of prey lay two or three, but the majority of birds many more.

It is important to notice that the higher development of birds,
as compared with reptiles, is associated with the production of
fewer offspring, but at the same time with the enormous increase
of parental care and sacrifice. If the young are to be developed
within the eggs, the latter must be kept at an approximately
constant warmth. In almost all cases this is effected by brooding,
the frequent helplessness of the young, the very common arboreal
habit, the not infrequent enemies, have necessitated a most varied
series of nest-building contrivances. The nest is built before the
eggs are ready to be laid, and in most cases the female takes the
prominent part in its construction. But both in the building and
in the subsequent brooding the male may do his share, or in some
cases much more. Each species usually has its own peculiar style
and material of construction, though this may be adapted to varying
conditions. The nests are usually solitary, more rarely grouped,
and very exceptionally (as among cassowaries and ostriches) common
property. Rooks, sea-fowl, herons, are familiar examples of breeding
communities, while the sociable grosbeak, the republican swallows,
and a few others, form even closer associations. The cuckoo and
the cowbird have managed by a sort of parasitism to shirk their
task, and quite a number of birds lay their eggs in an exceptional
manner in the nests of neighbors. The beak is the organ most used
in construction, but the pressure of the body may round off the
forming nest, and the feet may also be used. How comfortable a nest
may be made inside every one knows; how adroitly hidden it may be
by external decorations of moss and lichen is familiar to every
nest-hunter. The smaller birds usually build the more beautiful
nests, and every variety occurs, from the comparatively careless hole
in the sand made by the ostrich to the skilfully suspended and neatly
fashioned nest of the tailor-bird. It must be noticed that habits
vary considerably, as the very diverse nests built in different
circumstances by falcon, eagle, heron, etc., well illustrate. Nests
are shifted to suit food-supply, and vary in structure according to
the available material. And again, since nest-building is obviously
an acquired habit, which gradually rewarded the species in the
greater success of both parent and offspring during breeding time,
it is natural to find it dispensed with in many cases where the
nature of the situation rendered no actual nest necessary, or where
the birds for some other reason have never learned the habit. Some
sea-birds, like the auk, simply lay on the rocky ledges of their
haunts; some ground-birds simply deposit their eggs on the bare soil.

Burrowed holes are made by sand-martins, bee-eaters, penguins,
kingfishers, and many others. The prairie-owl, living in the burrows
of the prairie-dog and of the armadillo, is a well-known example of
peculiar habit, and in the first case of curious partnership. Ground
nests, generally of the simplest character, with rough and scanty
accumulation of nest material, are made by swans, ducks, geese,
fowls, gulls, waterhens, corncrakes, etc. Mud nests, constructed from
damp earth, are well illustrated by the house-swallows, blue-creeper,
flamingo, etc. The common singing thrush is well known to make a
firm nest of clay and cow-dung mixed with moss. Carpenter-nests,
formed with more or less preparation in the holes of trees, are
used by woodpeckers and a few other arboreal birds. Platform nests,
simply consisting of flat seats, are formed by the ring and turtle
doves, by eagles, storks, and cranes. In some parts of the Continent
the flat nests formed by the storks on the tops of buildings are
familiar enough objects. Basket nests are such loosely interwoven
constructions of grass, stems, twigs, etc., as are made by the
crows, missel-thrushes, and most singing birds. The green weaving
birds (Ploceus pensilis) hang their loosely woven nests, with
downward directed opening, on the Madagascar trees. The South African
republican birds (Philitærus socius) form hundreds of hanging nests
on the branches, under the shelter of a common thatch. Woven nests
are the more delicately constructed and really woven constructions
of wool, hair, bark, grass, etc., which are made by such birds as
the goldfinch, the Baltimore bird, and very many others. Sewed
nests, composed of leaves sewed together by the beak as needle, are
well illustrated by various species of Icterus, and by the Indian
tailor-bird (Orthotomus bennetii). Felt-work nests are woven from
the wool of plants or animals, sometimes with other material in
addition; the humming-birds and the bullfinch form beautiful nests
of this fashion. Cement nests are bound together by a viscid and
very adhesive secretion, which is mixed with saliva, and used to
glue the materials of the nest together. The nests of the American
swallow, the edible birds’ nests of the Salangani, sought after as
luxuries by Chinese and others, are of this cemented type. Dome or
moss nests are roofed in above and have an entrance on the side. The
common wren, the water-wagtail, and the tits build on this principle.
The beautiful bottle-shaped nest of the titmouse is one of the
best examples. The parasite habit is well known among cuckoos and
cowbirds. The nest of another bird is utilized to the future loss
of the rightful inmates, and with obvious economy of labor on the
part of the intruders. Thus sparrows usurp the nests of swallows,
and starlings those of woodpeckers. Pheasant and partridge eggs are
sometimes found in the same nest, and the same has been observed
in many cases--_e. g._, gull and eider-duck. When artificial nests
are forthcoming, birds are glad to be relieved of the labor of
construction, and different birds thus sometimes share a common box.
The resorts of birds, when convenient nooks are available, are often
extremely curious.

It is a well-known fact that comparatively few birds (at any rate
outside of the tropics) remain in the same place all the year round.
They do not hibernate, but migrate on the approach of cold. Some we
know as winter visitors, returning north again in spring, most we
know only in summer, for in autumn they fly to the warmer south; a
third set we call “birds of passage”; for these we only know somewhat
incidentally as they pass through on their way elsewhere.

[Illustration: Birds of all Climes

1, Crested Grebe (_Podiceps_); 2, Toucan; 3, Hoopoe; 4, Parrot
(_Melopsittacus_); 5, Barn Owl; 6, Crested Penguin; 7, King Vulture;
8, Ruff (_Pavoucella_); 9, Horned Owl; 10, Wood Duck; 11, Kingfisher;
12, Capuchin Bird; 13, Grouse; 14, Spoonbill; 15, California Quail]

Thus the swallow, the cuckoo, the nightingale, etc., come to Britain
in summer and breed there, being winter residents further south; the
fieldfare, jacksnipe, bean-goose, redwing, and some others, reach
Great Britain in winter, being summer residents and breeders further
north; while the little sandpipers are familiar examples of the true
birds of passage which we know only for a short time as they rest on
our shores in the journey south in autumn, and north again in spring.
These three classes are obviously only different cases of one fact of
migration. Almost all birds are in some degree migratory. Those
which breed in the equatorial regions are the chief exceptions,
and even they pass from hill to valley and back again. Forms, too,
which seem to be constant residents of a non-tropical country are
in many cases known to exhibit a partial or a very local migration.
This is true, for instance, of the common wren and the red grouse
in the north of Scotland. All birds breed in the colder regions
of their migration. Changes in food supply and the temperature
are the most important conditions impelling them to shift their
habitats. The general trend of migration is always, as indicated,
toward the equator in autumn, from the equator in spring; but the
investigations of the British Migration Committee have clearly shown
that the courses often come to be circular. The flight is the more
universal in a country the more marked the contrast between summer
and winter. The annual migration from breeding areas too cold for
winter residence and food supply to warmer subsistence areas can not
be understood apart from the history of climates. When the European
climate was more equable, it was virtually indifferent to the birds
where they went. As it grew colder the birds had to fly further and
further south every few winters. Migration has become an inherited
habit, for they set about it before the impelling conditions are
directly present. According to Wallace, natural selection has
played an important part in confirming this habit. Many facts about
migration are still utterly obscure. The power birds have of flying
straight and of returning to the same locality is very marvelous. It
must be remembered that a continuous tradition is sustained; those
who have made the journey before guide the others. Doubtless they
have memory for great landmarks. They fly across the shallower parts
of the Mediterranean, where a chain of islands in this submerged
tract long remained to guide them. The smaller birds usually keep
nearer the ground; but it must not be forgotten that the flight
is usually mostly accomplished by night. Birds generally meet in
concourses, and migrate in flocks. Only a few fly alone. Sometimes
the old males remain, while the others “flit.” The return northward
is more rapid, without young ones or weaklings. The males often
return first.

As birds have a full active life, with considerable variety of
function, in usually complex environment, since, as we have already
noticed, their sense-organs and nervous systems are highly developed,
considerable exhibition of intelligence is to be expected. They seem
to have great vividness of sense impressions, to judge from their
power of recalling old haunts and old friends. Birds often return
to the same place season after season, and they have been known to
recognize an owner after the lapse of years. Their quickness of ear
and power of retention are evidenced by the power some possess of
learning to repeat sounds, both words and tunes. Some have exhibited
marked fondness for music, and the æsthetic tastes of the bower-bird
excite deserved admiration. Much more is known in regard to their
marvelous hereditary, general, and largely automatic reasonable
habits or “instincts” than in regard to their power of individually
adapting their conduct to novel circumstances. Their beautiful and
adroit contrivances of nest-building are very familiar instances of
the former, but many instances of the latter have been recorded.

As to feelings, it is hardly necessary to refer to their unexampled
exhibition of sexual emotion in song and dance, parade, and display,
or to the marvelous parental love and sacrifice expressed in their
nest-building labors, in their prolonged incubation, and in their
care for and courage in defending their brood. Subtler emotions of
jealousy, both in connection with and altogether apart from sex, of
affection for owners or associations, of sympathy for wounded or
enfeebled fellows, are also not rarely exhibited. That a bird singing
continuously for hours does not represent a rare height of emotion
is not to be believed. It may be fairly said that the joyous song of
the lark “at heaven’s gate” is an eloquent expression of emotion only
surpassed perhaps by human music.




  MIMICRY
  --DAVID ROBERTSON


In ordinary language a person who can imitate the accent, manner
of talking, and acting of another is said to be a good mimic. In
biology, however, the term mimicry is used in a metaphorical sense,
being applied to the resemblance which one species of animal or
plant frequently shows to another. This resemblance is usually
of a protective character. It is evident that if the resemblance
which a defenceless species of animal often has to a species well
furnished with natural offensive and defensive weapons were a mere
freak of nature, no satisfactory and philosophical explanation of the
phenomenon could be given.

Scientific investigators have to lay aside their wonder, and
laboriously set about finding a solution to the most intricate and
puzzling phenomena both in natural and physical science.

Mimicry was first used by Mr. W. H. Bates to denote the advantageous
and generally protective resemblance assumed by one species of animal
or plant to another.

It will be seen further on that the resemblance is not confined to
one species of animal to another species of animal, and one species
of plant to a plant of quite a distinct species, but that it also
exists between animals and plants.

Mr. A. R. Wallace, who, by his most patient and skilful researches
in the domain of animal life, has clearly defined and limited the
term mimicry as applied in biology, says: “A certain species of plant
or animal possesses some special means of defence from its enemies,
such as a sting, a powerful and disagreeable odor, a nauseous taste,
or a hard integument or covering. Some other species, inhabiting the
same district or part of it, and not itself provided with the same
means of defence, closely resembles the first species in all external
points of form and color, though often very different in structure
and unrelated in the biological order.”

In South America there are certain butterflies, the Heliconidæ,
which are remarkable for the variety and beauty of their colors;
but they are incapable of rapid and sustained flight, and would for
this reason fall an easy prey to insect-eating birds. Their wings,
however, are never found among those rejected by insectivorous
birds--in places where the remains of other butterflies frequently
cover the ground. The Heliconidæ possess a powerfully disagreeable
and pungent odor, which is so little volatile as to cling to the
fingers for several days after handling one of these insects. Mr.
Wallace inferred from this that they have a disagreeable taste, and
would not on that account be eaten by birds. This was subsequently
found by Mr. Belt to be the case.

Belonging to the family of the Pieridæ, which is quite distinct from
the family of the Heliconidæ, and the greater number of which are
white, there is a genus of small butterfly named Leptalis, which is
eaten by birds. Some species of the genus Leptalis are white, like
their allies among the Pieridæ, but the majority of the Leptales have
an exact resemblance to some species of the Heliconidæ as far as
regards the peculiar shape and color of their wings.

The structure of the two families is completely different; in
spite of this the resemblance is so strikingly close that both the
experienced entomologists Mr. Bates and Mr. Wallace often at the
time of capture mistook the one for the other, and only discovered
their mistake by a closer examination. This has been looked upon as
the most typical example of true mimicry, and is interesting from
the fact that it is the first instance to which the term mimicry was
applied.

It is necessary to distinguish carefully between true mimicry and
several similar though superficial modes of resemblance which occur
among organic beings. Several orchids resemble flies or spiders, but
this is merely a case of accidental resemblance.

Among animals of a higher order than insects mimicry very seldom
occurs.

Among mammals, all of which belong to the vertebrates, mimicry is
seldom found, and it is supposed that only one genuine case has been
observed.

Cladobates, an insect-eating genus found in the Malayan region,
includes many species closely resembling squirrels both in size and
color, as well in regard to the bushiness and position of the tail.

It is supposed by Mr. Wallace that Cladobates, owing to its
resemblance to the harmless fruit-eating squirrel, may be enabled to
approach insects and birds upon which it lives.

Cuckoos bear a considerable resemblance to hawks; the cuckoo tribe
being weak and defenceless will in this way be enabled to elude the
voracious hawks.

There is a genus of dull-colored birds in Australia and the Moluccas
named Tropidorhynchus. These birds are large, active, and strong,
with powerful claws and sharp beaks. They congregate in flocks, and
are remarkably aggressive, driving away crows and even hawks.

In these same countries a genus of the group orioles lives, named
Mimeta. These are much weaker than their allies the golden orioles,
and besides are devoid of their brilliant colors, being usually
olive-green or brown. It is a very common thing to find species of
the Mimeta resembling Tropidorhynchi living on the same island.

The Tropidorhynchus bouruensis and Mimeta bouruensis are both found
in the island of Bouru, the latter of which mimics the former as
described by Mr. Wallace:

“The upper and under surfaces of the two birds are exactly of
the same tints of dark and light brown. The Tropidorhynchus has
a large, bare, black patch round the eyes; this is copied in the
Mimeta by a patch of black feathers. The top of the head of the
Tropidorhynchus has a scaly appearance from the narrow scaly-formed
feathers, which are imitated by the broader feathers of the Mimeta,
having a dusky line down each. The Tropidorhynchus has a pale ruff,
formed of curious recurved feathers on the nape (which has given
the whole genus the name of friar birds); this is represented in
the Mimeta by a pale band in the same position. Lastly, the bill of
the Tropidorhynchus is raised into a protuberant keel at the base,
and that of the Mimeta has the same character, although it is not
a common one in the genus.” The result is that when superficially
examined the birds seem to be identical, though possessed of
important structural differences, and placed wide apart in any
natural arrangement.

Mr. Wallace mentions some curious cases of mimicry among reptiles,
where a venomous tropical genus of snakes, Elaps, belonging to
America, is closely mimicked by several genera of harmless snakes.

It is in a special degree among insects that cases of mimicry are
most frequently found.

Genuine cases of mimicry are not so easily shown to exist among
plants. The resemblance between white dead nettle (Lamium album)
and the stinging nettle, as well as between other labiates and the
stinging nettle, may be considered to be a case of real mimicry as
defined above.

The true stinging nettles are avoided by animals, owing to their
possession of stinging hairs, which contain an acid fluid capable of
causing pain and producing blisters.

It would be clearly of advantage to another plant to resemble one
possessing such defensive armor as the stinging nettle.

There is another labiate, Ajuga ophrydis of South Africa, mentioned
by Mr. Mansel Weale. This labiate closely resembles an orchid, and
for this reason insects may be induced to visit the flower and thus
fertilize it.

Mr. Worthington Smith, the eminent fungologist, has found three rare
British fungi, each accompanying common species, which they closely
resembled; and one of the common species has a bitter nauseous taste.
In this case we have an example of genuine mimicry.

Dr. Hans Meyer has given in his valuable work, _Across East African
Glaciers_, some very striking instances of mimicry. He says:

“The similarity for the purpose of protection of the majority of the
great mammals, _i. e._, the likeness of the color of their coats, and
partly also of their external appearance, to the features and colors
of the regions which they inhabit, must strike every traveler with
astonishment.

“At a small distance the hartbeest (antelope), when stationary,
is really not distinguishable from red ant-heaps which everywhere
abound; the long-legged and long-necked giraffe can not be
distinguished from the dead trunk of a mimosa, the zebra from a
gray-brown clump of grass and thorn-scrub, the rhinoceros from a
fallen trunk of a tree. It is only when they move that they can be
distinguished. Nature has also extended this protective mimicry
(Schutzspiel) to the small insects; and perhaps for this reason they
often escape the eye specially in search of them; for butterflies and
grasshoppers look like dry twigs, the cicadæ like leaf-stalks, the
spiders like thorns, the phasmodæ like bare twigs, beetles like small
lumps of earth and small stones, moths like mosses and lichens.

“This protective mimicry is manifested not only in regard to the
colors and forms of the animals, but also as regards their movements,
or their manner of standing still, and in their preference for
certain localities appropriate to their disguise. There is protection
everywhere; protection against climatic extremes and against animal
foes; such varied and abundant protection as could only be developed
by natural selection in a primeval continent like Africa.”

In spite of the voluminous literature of “animal mimicry” since
Bates first published his classical memoir on the subject, the exact
nature of the process whereby insects and other creatures “mimic”
(though that is not the appropriate word) the appearance of other
species is still far from being understood. All we know is that this
power, this resemblance of a beetle or a butterfly to the ground upon
which it sits, the sticks among which it creeps, or the leaves among
which it flutters, helps to save it from destruction, while it is a
decided advantage to it to “mimic” another insect which is sedulously
avoided by birds. The observations in this byway of zoology are as
curious as any yet made. It is found, for instance, that an American
spider (Cyrlarachne) takes the semblance of a little land shell very
abundant in the localities which it frequents; and that another
species (Thomisus alcatorius), remarkable for the length of its
forelegs, so fastens itself on the stems of grasses as to be nearly
indistinguishable from the spikelets.

Some observations, for which we are indebted to M. Heckel of
Marseilles, throw a good deal of light on the origin of mimicry, at
least so far as the assumption of protective coloration is concerned.
There is a spider (Thomisus onustus) very common in the south of
France which conceals itself in the flower of a species of wild
convolvulus for the purpose of trapping two kinds of fly on which
it feeds. This convolvulus is found in three principal varieties:
white, pink with deeper spots of the same hue, and light pink forms
with a slight greenishness on the external wall of the flower. Each
of these three varieties is visited by the spider. But the varieties
of spider conform in hue to the varieties of the flower, and each
confines itself to the one which is most protective to it. If,
however, the animal is confined to a Dahlia versicolor, it conforms
to the hue of its new abode--that is, the pink one turns to red, and,
in like manner, if transferred to the yellow snapdragon, it takes
the color of this flower. They change in shade as the shade of their
host changes, and when pink, white, green, and yellow varieties are
confined together in a box they all become nearly white.

The question of protective coloration in fishes has of late received
some light which compels a revision of our former theories on the
subject. It has usually been held that the color of fishes is of
the mimicry order--that is, it has been acquired for the purpose of
deceiving their enemies. Trout will very commonly take the hue of
the river bottom over which they swim, and, as every one knows, it
is difficult to detect a flounder or other flat fish at rest, though
when it turns over the white under surface of its body instantly
reveals the creature’s presence. The hue of the upper surface is due
to the action of light. For when a sole was kept in a raised glass
case, with light directed upward from below, pigment formed on the
white side, and began to be absorbed on the one hitherto exposed to
the same agent.




  DWELLINGS
  --FRÉDÉRIC HOUSSAY


Animals construct dwellings either to protect themselves from the
cold, heat, rain, and other chances of the weather, or to retire
to at moments when the search for food does not compel them to be
outside and exposed to the attacks of enemies. Some inhabit these
refuges permanently; others only remain there during the winter;
others, again, who live during the rest of the year in the open air,
set up dwellings to bring forth their young, or to lay their eggs and
rear the offspring.

We shall find every stage, from that of beings provided for by
nature, and endowed with a special organ which secretes for them a
shelter, up to those who are constrained by necessity to seek in
their own intelligence an expedient to repair the forgetfulness of
nature.

Nearly all the Mollusca are enveloped by a very hard calcareous case,
secreted by their mantle: this shell, which is a movable house, they
bear about with them and retire into at the slightest warning.

Caterpillars which are about to be transformed into chrysalides weave
a cocoon, a very close dwelling in which they can go through their
metamorphosis far from exterior troubles. It is an organic form of
dwelling, or produced by an organ. It is not necessary to multiply
examples of this kind; they are extremely numerous. In the same
category must be ranged the cells issuing from the wax-glands which
supply bees with materials for their combs in which they inclose the
eggs of the queen with a provision of honey.

I do not wish to insist on creations of this kind which are
independent of the animal’s will and reflection. Near these facts
must be placed those in which animals, still using a natural
secretion, yet endeavor to obtain ingenious advantages from it
unknown by related species.

There is, for example, the Macropus viridiauratus, or paradise-fish,
which blows air bubbles in the mucus produced from its mouth. This
mucus becomes fairly resistant, and all the bubbles imprisoned and
sticking side by side at last form a floor. It is beneath this
floating shelter that the fish suspends its eggs for its little ones
to undergo their early development.

Certain tubicolar annelids, whose skin furnishes abundant mucus
which does not become sufficiently hard to form an efficacious
protection, utilize it to weld together and unite around them
neighboring substances, grains of sand, fragments of shell, etc. They
thus construct a case which both resembles formations by special
organs and manufacture by the aid of foreign materials. The larvæ
of Phryganea, who lead an aquatic life, use this method to separate
themselves from the world and prepare tubes in which to dwell. All
the fragments carried down by the stream are good for their labors
on condition only that they are denser than the water. They take
possession of fragments of aquatic leaves, and little fragments
of wood which have been sufficiently long in the water to have
thoroughly imbibed it, and so become heavy enough to keep themselves
at the bottom, or at least to prevent them from floating to the
surface. It is the larva of Phryganea striata which has been best
studied; those of neighboring species evidently act much in the same
way, with differences only in detail. The little carpenter stops a
fragment rather longer than his own body, lies on it and brings it
in contact with other pieces along his own sides. He thus obtains
the skeleton of a cylinder. The largest holes are filled up with
detritus of all kinds. Then these materials are agglutinated by a
special secretion. The larva overlays the interior of its tube with
a covering of soft silk which renders the cylinder water-tight and
consolidates the earlier labors. The insect is thus in possession of
a safe retreat. Resembling some piece of rubbish, it completes its
metamorphosis in peace, undisturbed by the carnivora of the stream.

Between the beings whom nature has endowed with a shelter and those
who construct it by their own industry, we may intercept those who,
deprived of a natural asylum and not having the inclination or the
power to make one, utilize the dwellings of others, either when the
latter still inhabit them, or when they are empty on account of the
death or departure of the owner. In the interior of the branchial
chamber of many bivalvular mollusca, and especially the mussel, there
lives a little crustaceous commensal called the pea-crab (Pinnoteres
pisum). He goes, comes, hunts, and retires at the least alarm within
his host’s shell. The mussel, as the price of its hospitality, no
doubt profits by the prizes which fall to the little crab’s claws. It
is even said that the crab in recognition of the benefits bestowed
by his indolent friend keeps him acquainted with what is passing on
around, and as he is much more active and alert than his companion he
sees danger much further away, and gives notice of it, asking for the
door to be shut by lightly pinching the mussel’s gill.

For birds like the cuckoo and the Molothrus it is not possible to
plead extenuating circumstances. They occupy a place in an inhabited
house without paying any sort of rent. Every one knows the cuckoo’s
audacity. The female lays her eggs in different nests and troubles
herself no further about their fate. She seeks for her offspring
a shelter which she does not take the trouble to construct, and
moreover at the same time assures for them the care of a stranger in
place of her own.

In North America a kind of starling, the Molothrus pecoris, commonly
called the cowbird, acts in the same careless fashion. It lives in
the midst of herds, and owes its specific name to this custom; it
feeds on the parasites on the skin of cattle. This bird constructs
no nest. At the moment of laying the female seeks out an inhabited
dwelling, and when the owner is absent she furtively lays an
egg there. The young intruder breaks his shell after four days’
incubation, that is to say, usually much before the legitimate
children; and the parents, in order to silence the beak of the
stranger who, without shame, claims his share with loud cries,
neglect their own brood which have not yet appeared, and which they
abandon.

The habits of the Molothrus bovariensis, a closely allied Argentine
cowbird, have been carefully studied by Mr. W. H. Hudson, who has
also some interesting remarks as to the vestiges of the nesting
instinct in this interesting parasitical bird, which is constantly
dropping eggs in all sorts of places, even on the ground, most
of them being lost. Mr. Hudson suggests that this bird lost the
nest-making instinct by acquiring the semi-parasitical habit, common
to many South American birds, of breeding in the large covered nests
of the Dendrocolaptidæ, although, owing to increased severity in the
struggle for the possession of such nests, this habit was defeated.

The Rhodius anarus, a fish of European rivers, also ensures a quiet
retreat for his offspring by a method which is not less indiscreet.
At the period of spawning, a male chooses a female companion and
with great vigilance keeps off all those who wish to approach her.
When the laying becomes imminent, the Rhodius, swimming up and
down at the bottom of the stream, at length discovers a Unio. The
bivalve is asleep with his shell ajar, not suspecting the plot which
is being formed against him. It is a question of nothing less than
of transforming him into furnished lodgings. The female fish bears
underneath her tail a prolongation of the oviduct; she introduces it
delicately between the mollusk’s valves and allows an egg to fall
between his branchial folds. In his turn the male approaches, shakes
himself over it, and fertilizes it. Then the couple depart in search
of another Unio, to whom to confide another representative of the
race. The egg, well sheltered against dangers from without, undergoes
development, and one fine day the little fish emerges and frisks away
from his peaceful retreat.

The hermit-crab perhaps knows best how to take advantage of old
clothes. He collects shells of Gasteropods, abandoned flotsam,
the first inhabitant of which has died. The hermit-crab (Pagurus
Bernhardus) is a Decapod Crustacean--that is to say, he resembles a
very small crab. But his inveterate habit during so many generations
of sheltering his abdomen in a shell prevents this part from being
incrusted with lime and becoming hard. The legs and the head remain
in the ordinary condition outside the house, and the animal moves
bearing it everywhere with him; on the least warning he retires into
it entirely. But the crustacean grows. When young he had chosen a
small shell. A mollusk, in growing, makes his house grow with him.
The hermit-crab can not do this, and when his dwelling has become
too narrow he abandons it for one that is more comfortable. At
first inclosed in the remains of a Trochus, he changes into that of
a Purpura; a little later he seeks asylum in a whelk. Besides the
shelter which these shells assure to the crustacean, they serve to
mask his ferocity, and the prey, which approaches confidently what it
takes to be an inoffensive mollusk, becomes his victim.

The great horned owl likewise does not construct a nest, but takes
possession of the dwellings abandoned by others. These birds utilize
for laying their eggs sometimes the nest of a crow or a dove,
sometimes the lair which a squirrel had considered too dilapidated.
The female, without troubling about the bad state of these ruins, or
taking pains to repair them, lays her eggs here and sits on them.

It is time to turn to animals who have more regard for comfort,
and who erect dwellings for themselves or their offspring. These
dwellings may be divided into three groups: (1) Those which are
hollowed in earth or in wood; (2) those which in the simplest
form result from the division of material of any kind; then,
as a complication, of materials bound together; then, as a last
refinement, of delicate materials, such as blades of grass or threads
of wool woven together; such are the nests of certain birds and the
tents of nomads; (3) those which are built of moist earth which
becomes hard on drying; the perfection of this method consists of
piling up hard fragments, pieces of wood or ashlar, the moist earth
being only a mortar which unites the hard parts together. Animals
exercise with varying success these different methods, all of which
man still practices.

We will first occupy ourselves with the dwelling hollowed in the
earth. It is the least complicated form. The number of creatures
who purely and simply bury themselves thus to obtain shelter is
incalculable; I will only mention a few examples, and pass on from
simple combinations to the more perfected industries, of which they
present the first sketch.

Speaking generally, birds are accomplished architects. Certain of
them are, however, content with a rudimentary cavern. There is no
question here of those who retire to clefts in the rock or in trunks
of trees, for in these cases the cavity is only the support of the
true house, and it is in the construction of this that the artist
reveals his talent. I wish to speak of animals which remain in a
burrow without making a nest there. A paroquet of New Zealand called
the kakapo (Strigops habroptilus) thus dwells in natural or hollowed
excavations. It is only found in a restricted portion of the island
and leads a miserable life there, habitually staying in the earth
and pursued by numerous enemies, especially half-wild dogs. It tries
to hold its own, but its wings and beak do not suffice to protect it,
and the race would have completely disappeared if these birds were
not able to resist, owing to the prudence with which they stay within
their dwellings. They profit by a natural retreat, or one constructed
in rocks or beneath roots of trees; they only come out when impelled
by hunger, and return as soon as they can in case of danger.

A large number of animals also hollow out shelters for their eggs,
with the double object of maintaining them at a constant temperature
and of concealing them. Most reptiles act in this manner.

It is not only land animals which adopt this custom of living in the
earth, and there sheltering their offspring. Fish also make retreats
on the bank or at the bottom. To mention only one case, the bullhead
(Cottus gobio) of English rivers, which spawns in the Seine in May,
June, and July, acts in this manner. Beneath a rock in the sand it
prepares a cavity; then seeks females and brings them to lay eggs in
its little lodging. During the four or five weeks before they come
out it watches the eggs, keeping away as far as possible every danger
which threatens them. It only leaves its position when pressed by
hunger, and as soon as the hunt is concluded, returns to the post of
duty.

Other animals when digging have a double object: they wish to shelter
themselves, and at the same time to find the water which they need
for themselves or for the development of their young.

It is well known that frogs and toads generally go in the spring to
lay their eggs in streams and ponds. A batrachian of Brazil and the
hot regions of South America, the Cystignathus ocellatus, no doubt
fearing too many dangers for the spawn if deposited in the open
water, employs the artifice of hollowing, not far from the bank, a
hole the bottom of which is filled by infiltration. It there places
its eggs, and the little ones on their birth can lead an aquatic life
while being guaranteed against its risks.

Many beings live permanently in a burrow; reptiles--snakes or
lizards--are to be placed among these. Among others, the Lacerta
stirpium arranges a narrow and deep hole, well hidden beneath a
thicket, and retires into it for the winter, when cold renders it
incapable of movement and at the mercy of its enemies. Before giving
itself up to its hibernal sleep, it is careful to close hermetically
the opening of the dwelling with a little earth and dried leaves.
When spring returns and the heat awakens the reptile, it comes out
to warm itself and to hunt, but never abandons its dwelling, always
retiring into it in case of alarm and to pass there cold days and
nights.

Darwin has observed and described how a little lacertilian, the
Conlophus subcristatus, conducts its work of mining and digging.
It establishes its burrow in a soft tufa, and directs it almost
horizontally, hollowing it out in such a way that the axis of the
hole makes a very small angle with the soil. This reptile does not
foolishly expend its strength in this troublesome labor. It only
works with one side of its body at a time, allowing the other side
to rest. For instance, the right anterior leg sets to work digging,
while the posterior leg on the same side throws out the earth. When
fatigued, the left legs come into play, allowing the others to repose.

Other animals, without building their cavern with remarkable skill,
show much sagacity in the choice of a site calculated to obtain
certain determined advantages. In Egypt there are dogs which have
become wild. Having shaken off the yoke of man, which in the East
affords them little or no support, they lead an independent life.
During the day they remain quiescent in desert spots or ruins, and at
night they prowl about like jackals, hunting living prey or feeding
on abandoned carcasses. There are hills which have in a manner become
the property of these animals. They have founded villages there, and
allow no one to approach. These hills have an orientation from north
to south, so that one slope is exposed to the sun from morning to
midday and the other from midday to evening. Now, dogs have a great
horror of heat. They fear the torrid heat of the south as much as
in our climate they like to lie warmed by gentle rays; there is no
shadow too deep for their siesta. Therefore, on these Egyptian hills
every dog hollows out a lair on both slopes. In the morning, when he
returns from his nocturnal expeditions, the animal takes refuge in
the second, and remains there until midday, sunk in refreshing sleep.
At that hour the sun begins to reach him, and to escape it he passes
over to the opposite slope; it is a curious sight to see them all,
with pendent heads and sleepy air, advance with trailing steps to
their eastern retreat, settle down in it, and continue their dream
and their digestion till evening, when they again set forth to prowl.

The trap-door spiders of the south of Europe construct burrows which
have been studied with great care and in much detail by Moggridge. He
found that there were four chief types of burrow. The whole burrow
as well as the door are lined with silk, which also forms the hinge.
The great art of the trap-door spider lies in her skilful forming
of the door, which fits tightly, although it opens widely when she
emerges, and which she frequently holds down when an intruder strives
to enter, and in the manner with which the presence of the door is
concealed, so as to harmonize with surrounding objects. Perhaps in
no case is the concealment more complete than when dead leaves are
employed to cover the door. In some cases a single withered olive
leaf is selected, and it serves to cover the entrance; in other cases
several are woven together with bits of wood or roots.

The trap-door spider (Mybale henzii, Girard), which is widely
diffused in California, forms a simple shaft-like burrow, but,
like the European trap-door spider, it is very skilful in forming
an entrance and in concealing its presence. Its habits have lately
been described by D. Cleveland of San Diego. In the adobe land
hillocks are numerous; they are about a foot in height, and some
three or four feet in diameter. These hillocks are selected by the
spiders--apparently because they afford excellent drainage, and can
not be washed away by the winter rains--and their stony summits are
often full of spiders’ nests. These subterranean dwellings are shafts
sunk vertically in the earth, except where some stony obstruction
compels the miner to deflect from a downward course. The shafts are
from five to twelve inches in depth, and from one-half to one and a
half inches in diameter, depending largely upon the age and size of
the spider.

When the spider has decided upon a location, which is always in clay,
adobe or stiff soil, he excavates the shaft by means of the sharp
horns at the end of his mandibles, which are his pick and shovel and
mining tools. The earth is held between the mandibles and carried
to the surface. When the shaft is of the required size, the spider
smoothes and glazes the wall with a fluid which is secreted by
itself. Then the whole shaft is covered with a silken paper lining,
spun from the animal’s spinnerets.

The door at the top of the shaft is made of several alternate layers
of silk and earth, and is supplied with an elastic and ingenious
hinge, and fits closely in a groove around the rim of the tube. This
door simulates the surface on which it lies, and is distinguishable
from it only by a careful scrutiny. The clever spider even glues
earth and bits of small plants on the upper side of his trap-door,
thus making it closely resemble the surrounding surface.

The spider generally stations itself at the bottom of the tube. When,
by tapping on the door, or by other means, a gentle vibration is
caused, the spider runs to the top of his nest, raises the lid, looks
out and reconnoitres. If a small creature is seen, it is seized and
devoured. If the invader is more formidable, the door is quickly
closed, seized and held down by the spider, so that much force is
required to lever it open. Then, with the intruder looking down upon
him, the spider drops to the bottom of his shaft.

It has been found by many experiments that when the door of his nest
is removed, the spider can renew it five times--never more than that.
Within these limitations, the door torn off in the evening was found
replaced by a new one in the morning. Each successive renewal showed,
however, a greater proportion of earth, and a smaller proportion of
silk, until finally the fifth door had barely enough silk to hold the
earth together. The sixth attempt, if made, was a failure, because
the spinnerets had exhausted their supply of the web fluid. When the
poor persecuted spider finds his domicile thus open and defenceless,
he is compelled to leave it, and wait until his stock of web fluid is
renewed.

Skilful diggers prepare burrows with several entrances; some even
arrange several rooms, each for a special object. The otter seeks
its food in the water, and actively hunts fish in ponds and rivers.
But when fishing is over, it likes to keep dry and at the same time
sheltered from terrestrial enemies. Its dwelling must also present an
easy opening into the water. In order to fulfil all the conditions,
its house consists first of a large room hollowed in the bank at a
level sufficiently high to be beyond reach of floods. From the bottom
of this keep a passage starts which sinks and opens about fifty
centimetres beneath the surface of the water. It is through here
that the otter noiselessly glides to find himself in the midst of
his hunting domain without having been seen or been obliged to make
a noisy plunge which would put the game to flight. If this were all,
the hermetically closed dwelling would soon become uninhabitable,
as there would be no provision for renewing the air, so the otter
proceeds to form a second passage from the ceiling of the room to the
ground, thus forming a ventilation tube. In order that this may not
prove a cause of danger, it is always made to open up in the midst of
brushwood or in a tuft of rushes and reeds.

Marmots also are not afraid of the work which will assure them a warm
and safe refuge in the regions they inhabit, where the climate is
rough. In summer they ascend the Alps to a height of 2,500 to 3,000
metres and rapidly hollow a burrow like that for winter time, which I
am about to describe, but smaller and less comfortable. They retire
into it during bad weather or to pass the night. When the snow chases
them away and causes them to descend to a lower zone, they think
about constructing a genuine house in which to shut themselves during
the winter and to sleep. Twelve or fifteen of these little animals
unite their efforts to make first a horizontal passage, which may
reach the length of three or four metres. They enlarge the extremity
of it into a vaulted and circular room more than two metres in
diameter. They make there a good pile of very dry hay on which they
all install themselves, after having carefully protected themselves
against the external cold by closing up the passage with stones and
calking the interstices with grass and moss.

In solitary woods or roads the badger (Meles), who does not like
noise, prepares for himself a peaceful retreat, clean and well
ventilated, composed of a vast chamber situated about a metre and
a half beneath the surface. He spares no pains over it, and makes
it communicate with the external world by seven or eight very long
passages, so that the points where they open are about thirty paces
distant from one another. In this way, if an enemy discovers one of
them and introduces himself into the badger’s home, the badger can
still take flight through one of the other passages. In ordinary
times they serve for the aeration of the central room. The animal
attaches considerable importance to this. He is also very clean in
his habits, and every day may be seen coming out for little walks,
having an object of an opposite nature to the search for food. This
praiseworthy habit is, as we shall see, exploited by the fox in an
unworthy manner.

The fox has many misdeeds on his conscience, but his conduct toward
the badger is peculiarly indelicate. The fox is a skilful digger,
and when he can not avoid it, he can hollow out a house with several
rooms. The dwelling has numerous openings, both as a measure of
prudence and of hygiene, for this arrangement enables the air to be
renewed. He prepares several chambers side by side, one of which he
uses for observation and to take his siesta in; a second as a sort
of larder in which he piles up what he can not devour at once; a
third in which the female brings forth and rears her young. But he
does not hesitate to avoid this labor when possible. If he finds a
rabbit warren he tries first to eat the inhabitants, and then, his
mind cleared from this anxiety, arranges their domicile to his own
taste, and comfortably installs himself in it. In South America,
again, the Argentine fox frequently takes up permanent residence
in a vizcachera, ejecting the rightful owners; he is so quiet and
unassuming in his manners that the vizcachas become indifferent to
his presence, but in spring the female fox will seize on the young
vizcachas to feed her own young, and if she has eight or nine, the
young of the whole village of vizcachas may be exterminated.

The badger’s dwelling appears to the fox particularly enviable.
In order to dislodge the proprietor he adopts the following plan:
Knowing that the latter can tolerate no ordure near his home, he
chooses as a place of retirement one of the passages which lead to
the chamber of the peaceful recluse. He insists repeatedly, until at
last the badger, insulted by this grossness, and suffocated by the
odor, decides to move elsewhere and hollow a fresh palace. The fox is
only waiting for this, and installs himself.

The vizcacha (Lagostomus trichodactylus) is a large rodent inhabiting
a vast extent of country in the pampas of La Plata, Patagonia, etc.
Unlike most other burrowing species, the vizcacha prefers to work
on open level spots. On the great grassy plains it is even able to
make its own conditions, like the beaver, and is in this respect,
and in its highly developed social instinct, among the two or three
mammals which approach man, although only a rodent, and even in this
order, according to Waterhouse, coming very low down by reason of its
marsupial affinities.

The vizcacha lives in small communities of from twenty to thirty
members, in a village of deep-chambered burrows, some twelve or
fifteen in number, with large pit-like entrances closely grouped
together, and as the vizcachera, as this village is called, endures
for an indefinitely long period, the earth which is constantly
brought up forms an irregular mound thirty or forty feet in diameter,
and from fifteen to thirty inches above the level of the road; this
mound serves to protect the dwelling from floods on low ground. A
clearing is made all round the abode and all rubbish thrown on the
mound; the vizcachas thus have a smooth turf on which to disport
themselves, and are freed from the danger of lurking enemies.

The entire village occupies an area of one hundred to two hundred
square feet of ground. The burrows vary greatly in extent; usually in
a vizcachera there are several that, at a distance of from four to
six feet from the entrance, open into large circular chambers. From
these chambers other burrows diverge in all directions, some running
horizontally, others obliquely downward to a maximum depth of six
feet from the surface; some of these galleries communicate with those
of other burrows.

On viewing a vizcachera closely, the first thing that strikes the
observer is the enormous size of the entrances to the central
burrows in the mound; there are usually several smaller outside
burrows. The entrance to some of the principal burrows is sometimes
four to six feet across the mouth, and sometimes it is deep enough
for a tall man to stand in up to the waist.

Certain rodents have carried hollow dwellings to great perfection.
Among these the hamster of Germany (Cricteus frumentarius) is
not the least ingenious. To his dwelling-room he adds three or
four storehouses for amassed provisions. The burrow possesses
two openings: one, which the animal prefers to use, which sinks
vertically into the soil; the other, the passage of exit, with a
gentle and very winding slope. The bottom of the central room is
carpeted with moss and straw, which make it a warm and pleasant home.
A third tunnel starts from this sleeping chamber, soon forking and
leading to the wheat barns. Thus during the winter the hamster has
no pressing need to go out except on fine days for a little fresh
air. He has everything within his reach, and can remain shut up with
nothing to fear from the severity of the season.

It is not only the soil which may serve for retreat; wood serves as
an asylum for numerous animals, who bore it, and find in it both food
and shelter. In this class must be placed a large number of worms,
insects, and crustaceans. One of these last, the Chelura terebrans,
a little amphipod, constitutes a great danger for the works of man.
It attacks piles sunken to support structures, and undermines them to
such a degree that they eventually fall.

An insect, the Xylocopa violacea, related to the humblebee,
from which it differs in several anatomical characters, and by
the dark violet tint of its wings, brings an improvement to the
formation of the shelter which it makes in wood for its larvæ.
Instead of hollowing a mere retreat to place there all its eggs
indiscriminately, it divides them into compartments, separated by
horizontal partitions. It is the female alone who accomplishes this
task, connected with the function of perpetuating the race. She
chooses an old tree-trunk, a pole, or the post of a fence, exposed to
the sun and already worm-eaten, so that her labor may be lightened.
She first attacks the wood perpendicularly to the surface, then
suddenly turns and directs downward the passage, the diameter of
which is about equal to the size of the insect’s body. The Xylocopa
thus forms a tube about thirty centimetres in length. Quite at the
bottom she places the first egg, leaving beside it a provision
of honey necessary to nourish the larva during its evolution;
she then closes it with a partition. This partition is made with
fragments of the powder of wood glued together with saliva. A first
horizontal ring is applied round the circumference of the tube; then
in the interior of this first ring a second is formed, and so on
continuously, until the central opening, more and more reduced, is at
last entirely closed up. This ceiling forms the floor for the next
chamber, in which the female deposits a new egg, provided, like the
other, with abundant provisions. The same acts are repeated until the
retreat becomes transformed into a series of isolated cells in which
the larvæ can effect their development, and from which they will
emerge either by themselves perforating a thin wall which separates
them from daylight, or by an opening which the careful mother has
left to allow them to attain liberty without trouble.

The second class of habitation, which I have called the woven
dwelling, proceeds at first from the parceling up of substances, then
of objects capable of being entangled like wisps of wood or straw,
then of fine and supple materials which the artisan can work together
in a regular manner, that is to say, by felting or weaving.

There are, first, cases in which the will of the animal does not
intervene, or at least is very slightly manifested. The creature
is found covered and protected by foreign bodies which are often
living beings. Spider-crabs (Maïa), for example, have their carapaces
covered with algæ and hydroids of all sorts. Thus garnished, the
Crustaceans have the advantage of not being recognized from afar when
they go hunting, since beneath this fleece they resemble some rock.
H. Fol has observed at Villefranche-sur-Mer a Maïa so buried beneath
this vegetation that it was impossible at first sight to distinguish
it from the stones around. Under these conditions the animal submits
to a shelter rather than creates it. Yet it is not so passive as one
might at first be led to suppose. When the algæ which flourish on
its back become too long and impede or delay its progress, it tears
them off with its claws and thoroughly cleans itself. The carapace
being quite clean, the animal finds itself too smooth and too easy
to distinguish from surrounding objects; it therefore takes up again
fragments of algæ and replaces them where they do not delay to take
root like cuttings and to flourish anew.

The sponge-crab (Dromia vulgaris) also practices this method of
shelter. It seizes a large sponge and maintains it firmly over its
carapace with the help of the posterior pair of limbs. The sponge
continues to prosper and to spread over the Crustacean who has
adopted it. The two beings do not seem to be definitely fixed to
each other; the contact of a sudden wave will separate them. When
the divorce is effected, the Dromia immediately throws itself on its
cherished covering and replaces it. M. Künckel d’Herculais tells
of one of these curious Crustaceans which delighted the workers
in the laboratory of Concarneau. The need for covering themselves
experienced by these crabs is so strong that in aquariums when their
sponge is taken away they will apply to the back a fragment of wrack
or of anything which comes to hand. A little white cloak with the
arms of Brittany was manufactured for one of these captives, and it
was very amusing to see him put on his overcoat when he had nothing
else wherewith to cover himself.

An Australian bird, the Catheturus Lathami, as described by Gould, is
still in the rudiments, and limits itself to preparing an enormous
pile of leaves. It begins its work some weeks before laying its eggs;
with its claws it pushes behind it all the dead leaves which fall on
the earth and brings them into a heap. The bird throws new material
on the summit until the whole is of suitable height. This detritus
ferments when left to itself, and a gentle heat is developed in the
centre of the edifice. The Catheturus returns to lay near this coarse
shelter; it then takes each egg and buries it in the heap, the larger
end uppermost. It places a new layer above, and quits its labor for
good. Incubation takes place favored by the uniform heat of this
decomposing mass, hatching is produced, and the young emerge from
their primitive nest.

Birds are not alone in constructing temporary dwellings in which
to lay their eggs; some fish are equally artistic in this kind of
industry, and even certain reptiles. The alligator of the Mississippi
would not perhaps at first be regarded as a model of maternal
foresight. Yet the female constructs a genuine nest. She seeks a
very inaccessible spot in the midst of brushwood and thickets of
reeds. With her jaw she carries thither boughs which she arranges
on the soil and covers with leaves. She lays her eggs and conceals
them with care beneath vegetable remains. Not yet considering her
work completed, she stays in the neighborhood watching with jealous
eye the thicket which shelters the dear deposit, and never ceases
to mount guard threateningly until the day when her young ones can
follow her into the stream.

A hymenopterous relative of the bees, the Megachile, cuts out in
rose-leaves fragments of appropriate form which it bears away to a
small hole in a tree, an abandoned mouse nest or some similar cavity.
There it rolls them, works them up, and arranges them with much art,
so as to manufacture what resemble thimbles, which it fills with
honey and in which it lays.

The Anthocopa acts in a similar manner, carpeting the holes of which
it takes possession with the delicate petals of the corn poppy.

The retreats of nocturnal birds of prey do not differ in method of
construction from these two kinds of nests. They are holes in trees,
in ruins, in old walls, and are lined with soft and warm material.
These dwellings are related, not to the type of the hollowed cave,
but to that of the habitation manufactured from mingled materials.
They constitute an inferior form in which the pieces are not firmly
bound together, but need support throughout. The cavity is the
support which sustains the real house.

Diurnal birds of prey are the first animals who practice skilfully
the twining of materials. Their nests, which have received the name
of eyries, are not yet masterpieces of architecture, and reveal the
beginning of the industry which is pushed so far by other birds.
Usually situated in wild and inaccessible spots, the young are there
in safety when their parents are away on distant expeditions. The
abrupt summits of cliffs and the tops of the highest forest trees
are the favorite spots chosen by the great birds of prey. The eyrie
generally consists of a mass of dry branches which cross and mutually
support one another, constituting a whole which is fairly resistant.

The abodes of squirrels, though exhibiting more art, are
constructions of the same nature; that is to say, they are formed
of interlaced sticks. This animal builds its home to shelter itself
there in the bad season, to pass the night in, and to rear its young.
Very agile, and not afraid of climbing, it places its domicile near
the tops of our highest forest trees. Rather capricious also, and
desiring change of residence from time to time, it builds several of
them; at least three or four, sometimes more. The materials which it
needs are collected on the earth among fallen dead branches, or are
torn away from the old abandoned nest of a crow or some other bird.
The squirrel first builds a rather hollow floor by intermingling the
fragments of wood which it has brought. In this state its dwelling
resembles a magpie’s nest. But the fastidious little animal wishes
to be better protected and not thus to sleep in the open air. Over
this foundation he raises a conical roof; the sticks which form it
are very skilfully disposed, and so well interlaced that the whole
is impenetrable to rain. The house must still be furnished, and this
is done with Oriental luxury; that is to say, the entire furniture
consists of a carpet, a carpet of very dry moss, which the squirrel
tears from the trunks of trees, and which it piles up so as to have
a soft and warm couch. An entrance situated at the lower part gives
access to the aerial castle; it is usually directed toward the east.
On the opposite side there is another orifice by which the animal can
escape if an enemy should invade the principal entrance. In ordinary
times also it serves to ventilate the chamber by setting up a slight
current of air. The squirrel greatly fears storms and rain, and
during bad weather hastens to take refuge in his dwelling. If the
wind blows in the direction of the openings, the little beast at once
closes them with two stoppers of moss, and keeps well shut in as long
as the storm rages.

The great Anthropoid apes have found nothing better for shelter than
the squirrels’ method. It must, however, be taken into account that
they have much more difficulty in arranging and maintaining much
heavier rooms, and in building up a shelter with larger surface.

The orang-outang, which lives in the virgin forests of the Sunda
Archipelago, does not feel the need of constructing a roof against
the rain. He is content with a floor established in the midst of a
tree, and made of broken and interlaced branches. He piles up on this
support a considerable mass of leaves and moss; for the orang does
not sleep seated like the other great apes, but lies down in the
manner of man, as has often been observed when he is in captivity.
When he feels the cold he is ingenious enough to cover himself with
the leaves of his couch.

In Upper and Lower Guinea the chimpanzee (Troglodytes niger) also
establishes his dwelling on trees. He first makes choice of a large
horizontal branch, which constitutes a sufficient floor for the agile
animal. Above this branch he bends the neighboring boughs, crosses
them, and interlaces them so as to obtain a sort of framework. When
this preliminary labor is accomplished, he collects dead wood or
breaks up branches and adds them to the first. Before commencing he
had taken care when choosing the site that the whole was so arranged
that a fork was within reach to sustain the roof. He thus constructs
a very sufficient shelter.

The Troglodytes calvus, a relative of the preceding, inhabiting
the same regions, as described by Du Chaillu, shows still more
skill in raising his roof. A tree is always chosen for support. He
breaks off boughs and fastens them by one end to the trunk, by the
other to a large branch. To fix all these pieces he employs very
strong creepers, which grow in abundance in his forests. Above this
framework, which indicates remarkable ingenuity, the animal piles
up large leaves, forming in layers well pressed down and quite
impenetrable to the rain. The whole has the appearance of an open
parasol. The ape sits on a branch beneath his handiwork, supporting
himself against the trunk with one arm. He has thus an excellent
shelter against the midday sun as well as against tropical showers.

There exists in Australia a bird with very curious customs. This is
the satin bower-bird. The art displayed in this bird’s constructions
is not less interesting than the sociability he gives evidence of,
and his desire to have for his hours of leisure a shelter adorned
to his taste. The bowers which he constructs, and which present on
a small scale the appearance of the arbors in our old gardens, are
places for reunion and for warbling and courtship, in which the birds
stay during the day, when no anxiety leads them to disperse. They
are not, properly speaking, nests built for the purpose of rearing
young; for at the epoch of love each couple separates and constructs
a special retreat in the neighborhood of the bower. These shelters
are always situated in the most retired parts of the forest, and
are placed on the earth at the foot of trees. Several couples work
together to raise the edifice, the males performing the chief part
of the work. At first they establish a slightly convex floor, made
with interlaced sticks, intended to keep the place sheltered from the
moisture of the soil. The arbor rises in the centre of this first
platform. Boughs vertically arranged are interlaced at the base
with those of the floor. The birds arrange them in two rows facing
each other; they then curve together the upper extremities of these
sticks, and fix them so as to obtain a vault. All the prominences
in the materials employed are turned toward the outside, so that
the interior of the room may be smooth and the birds may not catch
their plumage in it. This done, the little architects, to embellish
their retreat, transport to it a number of conspicuous objects, such
as very white stones from a neighboring stream, shells, the bright
feathers of the paroquet, whatever comes to their beak. All these
treasures are arranged on the earth, before the two entries to the
bower, so as to form on each side a carpet, which is not smooth, but
the varied colors of which rejoice the eye. The prettiest treasures
are fixed into the wall of the hut. These objects are intended solely
for the delight of these feathered artists. They are very careful
also only to collect pieces which have been whitened and dried by the
sun.

Certain humming-birds also, according to Gould, decorate their
dwellings with great taste. “They instinctively fasten thereon,” he
stated, “beautiful pieces of flat lichen, the larger pieces in the
middle, and the smaller on the part attached to the branch. Now and
then a pretty feather is intertwined or fastened to the outer sides,
the stem being always so placed that the feather stands out beyond
the surface.”

In spite of their lack of skill and the inadequacy of their organs,
fish are not the most awkward architects. The species which construct
nests for laying in are fairly numerous; the classical case of the
stickleback is always quoted, but this is not the only animal of its
class to possess the secret of the manufacture of a shelter for its
eggs.

A fish of Java, the gourami (Osphronemus olfax), establishes an ovoid
nest with the leaves of aquatic plants woven together. It makes its
work about the size of a fist, takes no rest until it is completed,
and is able to finish it in five or six days. It is the male alone
who weaves this dwelling; when it is ready a female comes to lay
there, and generally fills it; it may contain from six hundred to a
thousand eggs.

Without doubt the class of birds furnishes the most expert artisans
in the industry of the woven dwelling. In our own country we may see
them seeking every day to right and left, carrying a morsel of straw,
a pinch of moss, a hair from a horse’s tail, or a tuft of wool caught
in a bush. They intermingle these materials, making the framework
of the construction with the coarser pieces, keeping those that are
warmer and more delicate for the interior. These nests, attached to
a fork in a branch or in a shrub, hidden in the depth of a thicket,
are little masterpieces of skill and patience. To describe every
form and every method would fill a volume. But I can not pass in
silence those which reveal a science sure of itself, and which are
not very inferior to what man can do in this line. The Lithuanian
titmouse (Ægithalus pendulinus), whose works have been well described
by Baldamus, lives in the marshes in the midst of reeds and willows
in Poland, Galicia, and Hungary. Its nest, which resembles none met
with in England, is always suspended above the water, two or three
metres above the surface, fixed to a willow branch. All individuals
do not exhibit the same skill in fabricating their dwelling; some are
more careful and clever than others who are less experienced. Some
also are obliged by circumstances to hasten their work. It frequently
happens that magpies spoil or even altogether destroy with blows
of their beaks one of these pretty nests. The unfortunate couple
are obliged to recommence their task, and if this accident happens
two or three times to the same household, it can easily be imagined
that, discouraged and depressed by the advancing season, they hasten
to build a shelter anyhow, only doing what is indispensable, and
neglecting perfection. However this may be, the nests which are
properly finished have the form of a purse, twenty centimetres high
and twelve broad. At the side an opening, prolonged by a passage
which is generally horizontal, gives access to the interior.
Sometimes another opening is found without any passage. Every nest
in the course of construction possesses this second entry, but it
is usually filled up when the work is completed. When the bird has
resolved to establish its retreat, it first chooses a hanging branch
presenting bifurcations which can be utilized as a rigid frame on
which to weave the lateral walls of the habitation. It intercrosses
wool and goats’ hair so as to form two courses which are afterward
united to each other below, and constitute the first sketch of the
nest, at this moment like a flat-bottomed basket. This is only the
beginning. The whole wall is reinforced by the addition of new
material. The architect piles up down from the poplar and the willow,
and binds it all together with filaments torn from the bark of trees,
so as to make a whole which is very resistant. Then a couch is formed
by heaping up wool and down at the bottom of the nest.

The American Baltimore oriole, also called the Baltimore bird, is a
distinguished weaver. With strong stalks and hemp or flax, fastened
round two forked twigs corresponding to the proposed width of nest,
it makes a very delicate sort of mat, weaving into it quantities
of loose tow. The form of the nest might be compared to that of a
ham; it is attached by the narrow portion to a small branch, the
large part being below. An opening exists at the lower end of the
dwelling, and the interior is carefully lined with soft substances,
well interwoven with the outward netting, and it is finished with an
external layer of horse-hair, while the whole is protected from sun
and rain by a natural canopy of leaves.

The rufous-necked weaver bird, as described by Brehm, shows itself
equally clever. Its nest is woven with extreme delicacy, and
resembles a long-necked decanter hung up with the opening below.
From the bottom of the decanter a strong band attaches the whole to
the branch of a tree. The yellow weaver bird of Java, as described by
Forbes, constructs very similar retort-shaped nests.

These birds have no monopoly of these careful dwellings; a
considerable number of genera have carried this industry to the same
degree of perfection.

When animals apply themselves in association to any work, they nearly
always exhibit in it a marked superiority over neighboring species
among whom the individuals work in isolation. The construction of
dwellings is no exception, and the nests of the sociable weaver
birds of South Africa are the best constructed that can be found.
These birds live together in considerable colonies; the members of
an association are at least two hundred in number, and sometimes
rise to five hundred. The city which they construct is a marvel of
industry. They first make with grass a sloping roof, giving it the
form of a mushroom or an open umbrella, and they place it in such a
way that it is supported by the trunk of a tree and one or two of
the branches. This thatch is prepared with so much care that it is
absolutely impenetrable to water. Beneath this protecting shelter
each couple constructs its private dwelling. All the individual nests
have their openings below, and they are so closely pressed against
one another that, on looking at the construction from beneath, the
divisions can not be seen. One only perceives a surface riddled with
holes like a skimmer; each of these holes is the door of a nest. The
work may endure for several years; as long as there is room beneath
the roof the young form pairs near their cradle; but at last, as the
colony continues to increase, a portion emigrate to found a new town
on another tree in the forest.

The industry of the woven dwelling does not flourish among mammals;
but there is one which excels in it. This is the dwarf mouse (Mus
minutus), certainly one of the smallest rodents. It generally lives
amid reeds and rushes, and it is perhaps this circumstance which has
impelled it to construct an aerial dwelling for its young, not being
able to deposit them on the damp and often flooded soil. This retreat
is not used in every season; its sole object is for bringing forth
the young. It is therefore a genuine nest, not only by the manner
in which it is made, but by the object it is intended to serve. The
nest is made with as much delicacy as that of any bird, and no other
mammal except man is capable of executing such weaver’s work.

There are birds which have succeeded in solving a remarkable
difficulty. Sewing seems so ingenious an art that it must be reserved
for the human species alone. Yet the tailor-bird, the Orthotomus
longicauda, and other species possess the elements of it. They place
their nests in a large leaf which they prepare to this end. With
their beaks they pierce two rows of holes along the two edges of
the leaf; they then pass a stout thread from one side to the other
alternately. With this leaf, at first flat, they form a horn in which
they weave their nest with cotton or hair. These labors of weaving
and sewing are preceded by the spinning of the thread. The bird makes
it itself by twisting in its beak spiders’ webs, bits of cotton, and
little ends of wool. Sykes found that the threads used for sewing
were knotted at the ends. It is impossible not to admire animals
who have skilfully triumphed over all the obstacles met with in the
course of these complicated operations.

Certain spiders, while they do not actually sew in the sense that
they perforate the leaves they use to build their nest, and draw the
thread through them, yet subject the leaves to an operation which can
not well be called anything else but sewing it.

Certain wasps, by the material of their dwellings, approach the
Japanese; they build with paper. This paper or cardboard is very
strong and supplies a solid support; moreover, being a bad conductor
of heat, it contributes to maintain an equable temperature within
the nest. The constructions of these insects, though they do not
exhibit the geometric arrangement of those of bees, are not less
interesting. The paper which they employ is manufactured on the spot,
as the walls of the cells develop. Detritus of every kind enters into
its preparation: small fragments of wood, sawdust, etc.; anything is
good. These Hymenoptera possess no organ specially adapted to aid
them; it is with their saliva that they glue this dust together and
make of it a substance very suitable for its purpose. The dwellings
often reach considerable size, yet they are always begun by a single
female, who does all the work without help until the moment when the
first eggs come out; she is thus furnished with workers capable of
taking a share in her task. The Vespa sylvestris builds a paper nest
of this kind, hanging to the branch of a tree, like a great gray
sphere prolonged to a blunt neck. The hornet’s nest is similar in
construction.

Gelatine nests are made by certain swallows who nest in grottoes or
cliffs on the edge of the sea. After having collected from the water
a gelatinous substance formed either of the spawn of fish or the
eggs of mollusca, they carry this substance on to a perpendicular
wall, and apply it to form an arc of a circle. This first deposit
being dry, they increase it by sticking on to its edge a new deposit.
Gradually the dwelling takes on the appearance of a cup and receives
the workers’ eggs. These dwellings are the famous swallows’ nests, so
appreciated by the epicures of the extreme East, which are edible in
the same way as, for example, caviare.

Certain animals, whose dwelling participates in the nature of a
hollow cavern, make additions to it which claim a place among the
constructions with which we are now occupied.

The Anthophora parietina is in this group; it is a small bee which
lives in liberty in our climate. As its name indicates, it prefers
to frequent the walls of old buildings and finds a refuge in the
interstices, hollowing out the mortar half disintegrated by time. The
entrance to the dwelling is protected by a tube curved toward the
bottom, and making an external prominence. The owner comes and goes
by this passage, and as it is curved toward the earth the interior is
protected against a flow of rain, while at the same time the entry is
rendered more difficult for Melectes and Anthrax. These insects, in
fact, watch the departure of the Anthophora to endeavor to penetrate
into their nests and lay their eggs there. The gallery of entry and
exit has been built with grains of sand, the débris produced by the
insect in working. These grains of sand glued together form, on
drying, a very resistant wall.

The other animals of which I have to speak are genuine masons, who
prepare their mortar by tempering moistened earth. Every one has
seen the swallow in spring working at its nest in the corner of a
window. It usually establishes its dwelling in an angle, so that the
three existing walls can be utilized, and to have an inclosed space
there is need only to add the face. It usually gives to this the form
of a quarter of a sphere, and begins it by applying earth more or
less mixed with chopped hay against the walls which are to support
the edifice. At the summit of the construction a hole is left for
entry and exit. During the whole of its sojourn in our country the
swallow uses this dwelling, and even returns to it for many years in
succession, as long as its work will support the attacks of time. The
faithful return of these birds to their old nest has been many times
proved by attaching ribbons to their claws; they have always returned
with the distinctive mark.

Besides the swallows, birds offer us several types of skilful
construction with tempered earth.

The flamingo, which lives in marshes, can not place its eggs on
the earth nor in the trunks of trees, which are often absent from
its domain. It builds a cone of mud, which dries and becomes very
resistant, and it prepares at the summit an excavation open to the
air; this is the nest. The female broods by sitting with her legs
hanging over the sides of the hillock on which her little family
prospers above the waters and the damp soil.

A perch in the Danube makes a dwelling of dried earth in the form of
an elliptic cupola, and prepares a semicircular opening for entry and
exit.

The bird which shows itself the most skilful mason is probably the
oven-bird (Furnarius rufus) of Brazil and La Plata. Its name is owing
to the form of the nest which it constructs for brooding, and which
has the appearance of an oven. It is very skilful and knows how to
build a dome of clay without scaffolding, which is not altogether
easy. Having chosen for the site of its labors a large horizontal
branch, it brings to it a number of little clay balls more or less
combined with vegetable débris, works them all together, and makes a
very uniform floor, which is to serve as a platform for the rest of
the work. When this is done, and while the foundation is drying, the
bird arranges on it a circular border of mortar slightly inclined
outward. This becomes hard; it raises it by a new application, this
time inclined inward. All the other layers which will be placed above
this will also be inclined toward the interior of the chamber. As
the structure rises, the circle which terminates it above becomes
more and more narrow. Soon it is quite small, and the animal, closing
it with a little ball of clay, finds itself in possession of a
well-made dome. Naturally it prepares an entrance; the form of this
is semicircular. But this is not all. In the interior it arranges
two partitions: one vertical, the other horizontal, separating off
a small chamber. The vertical partition begins at one of the edges
of the door, so that the air from without can not penetrate directly
into the dwelling, which is thus protected against extreme variations
of temperature. It is in the compartment thus formed that the female
lays her eggs and broods, after having taken care to carpet it with a
thick layer of small herbs.

The muskrats of Canada live in colonies on the banks of streams or
deep lakes, and construct dwellings which are very well arranged. In
their methods we find combined the woven shelter with the house of
built earth. Their cabins are established over the highest level of
the water and look like little domes. In building them the animals
begin by placing reeds in the earth; these they interlace and weave
so as to form a sort of vertical mat. They plaster it externally with
a layer of mud, which is mixed by means of the paws and smoothed by
the tail. At the upper part of the hut the reeds are not pressed
together or covered with earth, so that the air may be renewed in
the interior. A dwelling of this kind, intended to house six or
eight individuals who have combined to build it, may measure up to
sixty-five centimetres in diameter. There is no door directly opening
on to the ground. A subterranean gallery starts from the floor and
opens out beneath the water. It presents secondary branches, some
horizontal, through which the animal goes in search of roots for
food, while others descend vertically to pits specially reserved for
the disposal of ordure.

[Illustration: Fairy Flies (magnified 30 diameters)

1, Caraphractus Cinctus, Male; 2, 3, same, Female; 4, 5, Mymar
Pulchellus, Male and Female; 6, 7, Prestwichia Aquatica, Female and
Male; 8, Cosmocomo Fumipennis, Female]

But it is, above all, the beaver (Castor fibre) who exhibits the
highest qualities as an engineer and mason. This industrious and
sagacious rodent is well adapted to inconvenience the partisans of
instinct as an entity, apart from intelligence, which renders animals
similar to machines and impels them to effect associated acts,
without themselves being able to understand them, and with a fatality
and determination from which they can under no circumstance escape.

The civilization of the beaver has perished in the presence of man’s
civilization, or rather of his persecution. In regions where it is
tracked and disturbed by man the beaver lives in couples, and is
content to hollow out a burrow like the otter’s, instead of showing
its consummate art. It merely vegetates, fleeing from enemies who
are too strong for it, and depriving itself of a dangerous comfort.
But when the security of solitude permits these animals to unite in
societies, and to possess, without too much fear, a pond or a stream,
they then exhibit all their industry.

They build very well arranged dwellings, although at first sight they
look like mere piles of twigs, branches, and logs heaped in disorder
on a small dome of mud. At the edge of a pond each raises his own
lodge, and there is no work by the colony in common. If, however,
there is a question of inhabiting the bank of a shallow stream,
certain preliminary works become necessary. The rodents establish a
dam, so that they may possess a large sheet of water which may be of
fair depth, and above all constant, not at the mercy of the rise and
fall of the stream. A sudden and excessive flood is the one danger
likely to prove fatal to these dikes; but even our own constructions
are threatened under such circumstances.

When the beavers, tempted by abundance of willows and poplars, of
which they eat the bark and utilize the wood in construction, have
chosen a site, and have decided to establish a village on the edge of
the water, there are several labors to be successively accomplished.
Their first desire is to be in possession of a large number of felled
trunks of trees. To obtain them they scatter themselves in the
forest bordering the stream and attack saplings of from twenty to
thirty centimetres in diameter. They are equipped for this purpose.
With their powerful incisors, worked by strong jaws, they can soon
gnaw through a tree of this size. But they are capable of attacking
trees even more than 100 cm. in diameter and some forty metres in
height with great skill and adaptability; “no better work could be
accomplished by a most highly finished steel cutting tool, wielded
by a muscular human arm” (Martin). They operate seated on their
hindquarters, and they make their incision in the wood with a feather
edge. It was once supposed that they always take care so to direct
their wood-cutting task that the tree may fall on the water-side, but
this is by no means the case, and appears to be simply due, as Martin
points out, to the fact that trees by the water-side usually slope
toward the water. The austerity of labor alternates, it may be added,
with the pleasures of the table. From time to time the beavers
remove the bark of the fallen trees and feed on it.

Mr. Lewis H. Morgan studied the American beaver with great care
and thoroughness, more especially on the southwest shore of Lake
Superior; he devotes fifty pages to the dams, and it is worth while
to quote his preliminary remarks regarding them: “The dam is the
principal structure of the beaver. It is also the most important
of his erections, as it is the most extensive, and because its
production and preservation could only be accomplished by patient
and long-continued labor. In point of time, also, it precedes the
lodge, since the floor of the latter and the entrances to its chamber
are constructed with reference to the level of the water in the
pond. The object of the dam is the formation of an artificial pond,
the principal use of which is the refuge it affords to them when
assailed, and the water-connection it gives to their lodges and to
their burrows in the banks. Hence, as the level of the pond must, in
all cases, rise from one to two feet above these entrances for the
protection of the animal from pursuit and capture, the surface-level
of the pond must, to a greater or less extent, be subject to their
immediate control. As the dam is not an absolute necessity to the
beaver for the maintenance of his life, his normal habitation
being rather natural ponds and rivers, and burrows in their banks,
it is in itself considered a remarkable fact that he should have
voluntarily transferred himself, by means of dams and ponds of his
own construction, from a natural to an artificial mode of life.

“Some of these dams are so extensive as to forbid the supposition
that they were the exclusive work of a single pair or of a single
family of beavers; but it does not follow, as has very generally been
supposed, that several families, or a colony, unite for the joint
construction of a dam. After careful examination of some hundreds
of these structures, and of the lodges and burrows attached to many
of them, I am altogether satisfied that the larger dams were not
the joint product of the labor of large numbers of beavers working
together, and brought thus to immediate completion; but, on the
contrary, that they arose from small beginnings, and were built upon
year after year, until they finally reached that size which exhausted
the capabilities of the location; after which they were maintained
for centuries, at the ascertained standard, by constant repairs. So
far as my observations have enabled me to form an opinion, I think
they were usually, if not invariably, commenced by a single pair, or
a single family of beavers; and that when, in the course of time, by
the gradual increase of the dam, the pond had become sufficiently
enlarged to accommodate more families than one, other families took
up their residence upon it, and afterward contributed by their labor
to its maintenance. There is no satisfactory evidence that the
American beavers either live or work in colonies; and if some such
cases have been observed, it will either be found to be an exception
to the general rule, or in consequence of the sudden destruction of a
work upon the maintenance of which a number of families were at the
time depending.

“The great age of the larger dams is shown by their size, by the
large amount of solid materials they contain, and by the destruction
of the primitive forest within the area of the ponds; and also by
the extent of the beaver-meadows along the margins of the streams
where dams are maintained, and by the hummocks formed upon them by
and through the annual growth and decay of vegetation in separate
hills. These meadows were undoubtedly covered with trees adapted to a
wet soil when the dams were constructed. It must have required long
periods of time to destroy every vestige of the ancient forest by
the increased saturation of the earth, accompanied with occasional
overflows from the streams. The evidence from these and other sources
tends to show that these dams have existed in the same places for
hundreds and thousands of years, and that they have been maintained
by a system of continuous repairs.

“At the place selected for the construction of a dam, the ground
is usually firm and often stony, and when across the channel of a
flowing stream, a hard rather than a soft bottom is preferred. Such
places are necessarily unfavorable for the insertion of stakes in the
ground, if such were, in fact, their practice in building dams. The
theory upon which beaver-dams are constructed is perfectly simple,
and involves no such necessity. Soft earth, intermixed with vegetable
fibre, is used to form an embankment, with sticks, brush, and poles
imbedded within these materials to bind them together, and to impart
to them the requisite solidity to resist the effects both of pressure
and of saturation. Small sticks and brush are used, in the first
instance, with mud and earth and stones for down-weight. Consequently
these dams are extremely rude at their commencement, and they do not
attain their remarkably artistic appearance until after they have
been raised to a considerable height, and have been maintained, by a
system of annual repairs, for a number of years.”[12]

There are two different kinds of beaver-dams, although they are both
constructed on the same principle. One, the stick-dam, consists of
interlaced stick and pole work below, with an embankment of earth
raised with the same material upon the upper or water face. This is
usually found in brooks or large streams with ill-defined banks. The
other, the solid-bank dam, is not so common nor so interesting, and
is usually found on those parts of the same stream where the banks
are well defined, the channel deep, and the current uniform. In this
kind the earth and mud entirely buries the sticks and poles, giving
the whole a solid appearance. In the first kind the surplus water
percolates through the dam along its entire length, while in the
second it is discharged through a single opening in the crest formed
for that purpose.

The materials being prepared in the manner I have previously
described, the animals make ready to establish their dike. They
intermix their materials--driftwood, green willows, birch, poplars,
etc.--in the bed of the river, with mud and stones, so making a solid
bank, capable of resisting a great force of water; sometimes the
trees will shoot up forming a hedge. The dam has a thickness of from
three to four metres at the base, and about sixty centimetres at
the upper part. The wall facing up-stream is sloping, that directed
down-stream is vertical; this is the best arrangement for supporting
the pressure of the mass of water which is thus expended on an
inclined surface. In certain cases beavers carry hydraulic science
still further. If the course of the water is not very rapid, they
generally make an almost straight dike, perpendicular to the two
banks, as this is then sufficient; but if the current is strong, they
curve it so that the convexity is turned up-stream. In this way it is
much better fitted to resist. Thus they do not always act in the same
way, but arrange their actions so as to adapt them to the conditions
of the environment.

The embankment being completed, the animals construct their lodges.
Fragments of wood, deprived of the bark, are arranged and united by
clay or mud which the beavers take from the river-side, transport,
mix, and work with their forepaws. During a single night they can
collect as much mud at their houses as amounts to some thousands of
their small handfuls. They thus plaster their houses with mud every
autumn; in the winter this freezes as hard as a stone and protects
them from enemies. These cabins form domes from three to four metres
in diameter at the base, and from two to two and a half metres in
height. The floor is on a level with the surface of the artificial
pond. A passage sinks in the earth and opens about one and a half
metres below the level of the water, so that it can not be closed up
by ice during the severe winters of these regions.

Within, near the entry, the beavers form, with the aid of a
partition, a special compartment to serve as a storehouse, and they
there pile up enormous heaps of nenuphar roots as provisions for
the days when ice and snow will prevent them from barking the young
trunks.

A dwelling of this kind may last for three or four years, and the
animal here tranquilly enjoys the fruits of its industry as long
as man fails to discover the retreat; for the beaver can escape by
swimming from all carnivorous animals excepting, perhaps, the otter.
During the floods the level of the water nearly reaches the hut; if
the inundation is prolonged and the animal runs the risk of being
asphyxiated beneath his dome, it breaks through the upper part with
its teeth and escapes. When the water returns to its bed the beaver
comes back, makes the necessary repairs, and resumes the usual
peaceful course of its life.

We have thus seen, from a shapeless hole to these complex dwellings,
every possible stage; we have found among animals the rudiments of
the different human habitations, certain animals, indeed, having
arrived at a degree of civilization which man himself in some
countries has not yet surpassed, or even indeed yet attained.




  MAN’S FIRST APPEARANCE
  --BOYD DAWKINS


The characteristics of the evolution of living forms may be summed up
as follows:

I. Eocene--in which the placental mammals now on earth were
represented by allied forms belonging to existing orders and
families. Living orders and families appear; lemurs (Lemuridæ) in
Europe and North America. Evidence found in fresh-water and marine
strata; lignites.

II. Miocene--in which the alliance between living and placental
mammals is more close than before. Living genera appear; apes
(Simiadæ) in Europe and North America. Evidence--fresh-water and
marine strata; volcanic débris (Auvergne); lignites.

III. Pliocene--in which living species of placental mammals appear.
Living species appear; apes (Simiadæ) in Southern Europe. Evidence
found in fresh-water and marine strata; volcanic débris (Auvergne).

IV. Pleistocene--in which living species of placental mammals
are more abundant than the extinct. Man appears; Anthropidæ; the
palæolithic hunter; living species abundant. Evidence--refuse-heaps,
contents of caves, river deposits, submarine forests, bowlder clay,
moraines, marine sands, and shingle.

V. Prehistoric--in which domestic animals and cultured fruits appear.
Man abundant, domestic animals, cultivated fruits, spinning, weaving,
pottery-making, mining, commerce; the neolithic, bronze, and iron
stages of culture. Evidence--camps, habitations, tombs, refuse-heaps,
surface accumulation, caves, alluvia, peat bogs, submarine forests,
raised beaches.

VI. Historic--in which the events are recorded in history.
Evidence--documents, refuse-heaps, caves, tombs.

The orders, families, genera, and species in the above summary, when
traced forward in time, fall into the shape of a genealogical tree,
with its trunk hidden in the secondary period, and its branchlets
(the living species) passing upward from the Pliocene, a tree of life
with living Mammalia for its fruits and foliage. Were the extinct
species taken into account, it would be seen that they fill up the
intervals separating one living form from another, and that they too
grow more and more like the living forms as they approach nearer to
the present day. It must be remembered that in the above definitions
the fossil marsupials are purposely ignored, because they began their
specialization in the secondary period, and had arrived in the Eocene
at the stage which is marked by the presence of living genus--the
opossum (Didelphys).

It will be seen that our inquiry into the antiquity of man is limited
to the last four of the divisions. The most specialized of all
animals can not be looked for until the higher Mammalia by which he
is surrounded were alive. We can not imagine him in the Eocene age,
at a time when animal life was not sufficiently differentiated to
present us with any living genera of placental mammals. Nor is there
any probability of his having appeared on the earth in the Miocene,
because of the absence of higher placental mammals belonging to
living species. It is most unlikely that man should have belonged to
a fauna in which no other living species of mammal was present. He
belongs to a more advanced stage of evolution than the mid-Miocene
of Thenay. Up to this time the evolution of the animal kingdom had
advanced no further than the Simiadæ in the direction of man; and
the apes then haunting the forests of Italy, France, and Germany
represent the highest type of those on earth.

We may also look at the question from another point of view. If man
were upon the earth in the Miocene age, it is incredible that he
should not have become something else in the long lapse of ages, and
during the changes in the condition of life, by which all the Miocene
land Mammalia have been so profoundly affected that they have been
either exterminated or have assumed new forms. Nor in the succeeding
Pliocene age can we expect to find man upon the earth, because of
the very few living species of placental mammals then alive. It is
not until we arrive at the succeeding stage, or the Pleistocene,
when living species of Mammalia began to abound, that we meet with
indisputable traces of the presence of man on the earth. The rudely
chipped implements of the River-drift hunter lie scattered through
the late Pleistocene river deposits in southern and eastern England
in enormous abundance, and as a rule in association with the remains
of animals of Arctic and of warm habit, as well as some one or other
of the extinct species of reindeer and hippopotamus along with
mammoth and woolly rhinoceros.

The geographical change in Northern Europe at the close of the
forest-bed age was very great. The forest of the North Sea sank
beneath the waves, and Britain was depressed to a depth of no less
than 2,300 feet in the Welsh Mountains, and was reduced to an
archipelago of islands, composed of what are now the higher lands.
The area of the English Channel was also depressed, and the “silver
streak” was wider than it is now, as is proved by the raised beach at
Brighton, at Brackelsham, and elsewhere, which marks the sea-line of
the largest island of the archipelago, the Southern Island, as it may
be termed, the northern shores of which extended along a line passing
from Bristol to London. The northern shore of the Continent at this
time extended eastward from Abbeville, north of the Erzgebirge,
through Saxony and Poland, into the middle of Russia, Scandinavia
being an island from which the glaciers descended into the sea.
This geographical change was accompanied by a corresponding change
in climate. Glaciers descended from the higher mountains to the sea
level, and icebergs, melting as they passed southward, deposited
their burdens of clay and sand which occupy such a wide area in the
portions then submerged of Britain and the Continent. This depression
was followed by a re-elevation, by which the British Isles, a part of
the Continent, all the large tract of country within the 100-fathom
line, again became the feeding-grounds of the late Pleistocene
mammalia.

An appeal to the animals associated with the River-drift implements
will not help us to fix the exact relation of man to these changes,
because they were in Britain before as well as after the submergence,
and were living throughout in those parts of Europe which were not
submerged. It can only be done in areas where the submergence is
clearly defined. At Salisbury, for instance, the River-drift hunter
may have lived either before, during or after the southern counties
became an island. When, however, he hunted the woolly and leptorhine
rhinoceros, the mammoth, and the horse, in the neighborhood of
Brighton, he looked down upon a broad expanse of sea, in the spring
flecked with small icebergs such as those which dropped their burdens
in Brackelsham Bay. At Abbeville, too, he hunted the mammoth,
reindeer, and horse down to the mouth of the Somme on the shore of
the glacial sea. The evidence is equally clear that the River-drift
hunter followed the chase in Britain after it had emerged from
beneath the waters of the glacial sea, from the fact that the river
deposits in which his implements occur either rest upon the glacial
clays, or are composed of fragments derived from them, as in the
oft-quoted case of Hoxne and Bedford. Further, it is very probable
that he may have wandered close up to the edge of the glaciers
then covering the higher hills of Wales and the Pennine chain. The
severity of the climate in winter at this time in Britain is proved,
not merely by the presence of the Arctic animals, but by the numerous
ice-borne blocks in the river gravels dropped in the spring after the
break-up of the frosts.

The River-drift man is proved, by the implements which he left
behind, to have wandered over the whole of France, and to have
hunted the same animals in the valley of the Loire and the Garrone,
as in the valley of the Thames. In the Iberian peninsula he was
also a contemporary of the African elephant, the mammoth, and the
straight-tusked elephant, and he occupied the neighborhood both of
Madrid and Lisbon. He also ranged over Italy, leaving traces of his
presence in the Abruzzo, and in Greece he was a contemporary of the
extinct pygmy hippopotamus (H. Pentlandi). South of the Mediterranean
his implements have been met with in Oran, and near Kolea in
Algeria, and in Egypt in several localities. At Luxor they have been
discovered by General Pitt-Rivers in the breccia, out of which are
hewn the tombs of the kings. In Palestine, they have been obtained by
the Abbé Richard between Mount Tabor and the Sea of Tiberias; and by
Mr. Stopes between Jerusalem and Bethlehem. Throughout this wide area
the implements, for the most part of flint or of quartzite, are of
the same rude types, and there is no difference to be noted between
the hatchets found in the caves of Cresswell in Derbyshire and those
of Thebes, or between those of the valley of the Somme and those of
Palestine. The River-drift hunter ranged over the Indian peninsula
from Madras as far north as the valley of the Nerbudda. Here we
find him forming part of a fauna in which are species now living
in India, such as the Indian rhinoceros and the arnee, and extinct
types of oxen and elephants. There are two extinct hippopotami in the
rivers, and living gavials, turtles, and tortoises. It is plain,
therefore, that at this time the fauna of India stood in the same
relation to the present fauna as the European fauna of the late
Pleistocene does to that now living in Europe. In both there was a
familiar association of extinct and living forms, from both the genus
hippopotamus has disappeared in the lapse of time, and in both man
forms the central figure.

We are led from the region of tropical India to the banks of the
Delaware, in New Jersey, by the recent discoveries of Dr. C. C.
Abbott. Here, too, living and extinct species are found side by side.

Thus in our survey of the group of animals surrounding man when
he first appeared in Europe, India, and North America, we see
that in all three regions, so widely removed from each other,
the animal life was in the same stage of evolution, and “the old
order” was yielding “place unto the new.” The River-drift man is
proved by his surroundings to belong to the Pleistocene age in all
three. The evidence of Palæolithic man in South Africa seems to
me unsatisfactory, because the age of the deposits in which the
implements are found has not been decided.

The identity of the implements of the River-drift hunter proves that
he was in the same rude state of civilization, if it can be called
civilization, in the Old and New Worlds, when the hands of the
geological clock pointed to the same hour. It is not a little strange
that his mode of life should have been the same in the forests to the
north and south of the Mediterranean, in Palestine, in the tropical
forests of India, and on the western shore of the Atlantic. The
hunter of the reindeer in the valley of the Delaware was to all
intents and purposes the same sort of savage as the hunter of the
reindeer on the banks of the Wiley or of the Solent.

It does not, however, follow that this identity of implements
implies that the same race of men were spread over this vast tract.
It points rather to a primeval condition of savagery from which
mankind has emerged in the long ages which separate it from our
own time. It may further be inferred, from his widespread range,
that the River-drift man (assuming that mankind sprang from one
centre) must have inhabited the earth for a long time, and that his
dispersal took place before the glacial submergence and the lowering
of the temperature in Northern Europe, Asia, and America. It is not
reasonable to suppose that the Straits of Behring would have offered
a free passage, either to the River-drift man from Asia to America,
or to American animals from America to Europe, or _vice versâ_, while
there was a vast barrier of ice or of sea, or of both, in the high
northern latitudes. I therefore feel inclined to view the River-drift
man as having invaded Europe in pre-glacial time along with the other
living species which then appeared. The evidence, as I have already
pointed out, is conclusive that he was also glacial and post-glacial.

In all probability, the birthplace of man was in a warm, if not a
tropical, region of Asia--“in a garden of Eden”; and from this the
River-drift man found his way into those regions where his implements
occur. In India, he was a member of a tropical fauna, and his
distribution in Europe and along the shores of the Mediterranean
proves him to have belonged either to the temperate or the southern
fauna in those regions. It will naturally be asked, To what race can
the River-drift man be referred? The question, in my opinion, can
not be answered in the present stage of the inquiry, because the
few fragments of human bones discovered along with the implements
are too imperfect to afford any clew. Nor can we measure the
interval in terms of years which separates the River-drift man from
the present day, either by assuming that the glacial period was
due to astronomical causes, and then proceeding to calculate the
time necessary for them to produce their result, or by an appeal
to the erosion of valleys, or the retrocession of waterfalls. The
interval must, however, have been very great to allow of the changes
in geography and climate, and the distribution of animals which
has taken place--the succession of races, and the development of
civilization before history began. Standing before the rock-hewn
tombs of the kings at Luxor, we may realize the impossibility of
fixing the time when the River-drift hunter lived in the side of the
ancient Thebes, or of measuring the lapse of time between his days
and the splendor of the civilization of Egypt. In this inquiry I have
purposely omitted all reference to the successor of the River-drift
man in Europe--the Cave man--who was in a higher stage of the hunter
civilization. In the course of my remarks you will have seen that the
story told by the rudely chipped implements found at our very door
forms a part of the wider story of the first appearance of man and of
his distribution on the earth.




  MAN’S PRIMITIVE CONDITION
  --DUKE OF ARGYLL


As the question of man’s origin is different from the question of his
antiquity, and as the antiquity of man is a different question from
his primitive condition, so again the last question includes within
itself several different matters of inquiry. There is first the
question, What consciousness had primeval man of moral obligation,
and what communion with his Creator? Next there is the question,
What were his innate intellect or understanding? And, thirdly, there
is the question, What was his condition in respect to knowledge,
whether as the result of intuition or as the result of teaching? Sir
J. Lubbock speaks of primeval man as having been in a condition of
“utter barbarism.” But no one, speaking philosophically, has a right
to use such terms as “barbarism” and “civilization” without some
definition of their meaning. What were those faculties which made
the first creature who possessed them “worthy to be called a man”?
A mind capable of reason, disposed to reason, and able to acquire,
to accumulate, and to transmit knowledge--this is the distinctive
attribute of man. The first being “worthy to be so called” must have
had such a mind. But it could not properly be said of such a being,
on the ground merely of his ignorance of mechanical arts, that he
was in a condition of “utter barbarism,” if he were at the same time
conscious of moral obligations and obedient to them.

Wherever a brutal or savage custom prevails it is at once assumed
to be a sample of the original condition of mankind. And this in
the teeth of facts which prove that many of such customs not only
may have been, but must have been, the result of corruption. Take
cannibalism as one of these. Sir J. Lubbock seems to admit that this
loathsome practice was not primeval, probably because he considers it
as unnatural. And so it is--that is to say, it is against the better
nature of man; but the fact of its existence proves that within the
limits of that nature there are elements liable to perversions even
so horrible as this. And so we come upon the fact of the two natures
of man, and of the power of the worst parts of his nature to overcome
the best. It is thus that customs the most cruel and depraved become
established. But if this be the explanation, and the only possible
explanation, of cannibalism, is it not evident that this may also
be the explanation of other customs which are violent and horrible
only in a less degree? Cruel rites of worship and savage customs as
regards marriage and the relation of the sexes come under the same
category. Cannibalism is only an extreme case of a general law, and
it is a crucial test of the fallacy of a whole class of arguments
commonly assumed by those who support the savage theory respecting
the primeval condition of mankind.

The great difficulty of teaching many savages the arts of civilized
life is no proof whatever that the various degrees of advance
toward the knowledge of those arts which are actually found among
semi-barbarous nations may not have been of strictly indigenous
growth. Thus it appears that one tribe of Red Indians, called
“Mandans,” practiced the art of fortifying their towns. Surrounding
tribes, although they saw the advantages derived from this art, yet
never practiced it, and never learned it.

I do not agree with the late Archbishop of Dublin that we are
entitled to assume it as a fact that, as regards the mechanical
arts, no savage race has ever raised itself. Whately says that “the
earliest generations of mankind had received only very limited, and
what may be called elementary, instruction, enough merely to enable
them to make further advances afterward by the exercise of their
natural powers.” But how much was this “enough”? And what is meant
by “instruction,” as distinguished from inborn or intuitive powers
of observation and of reasoning? May not this have been the form in
which the Creator first “instructed” man? For here it is important
to observe that in direct proportion as we assume man’s primitive
condition to have been such as to require elementary teaching, in
the same proportion do we suppose that his primitive condition in
respect to intellect was low and weak. Accordingly, Whately assumes
as an indisputable fact, that man has no instincts such as enable the
lower animals to construct nests, cells, and lairs. My own belief
is that this is an assumption which is not only unproved, but one
which in all probability is false. As Whately himself admits, “man
is an animal” as well as the creatures that are below him. It is
true that he has not instincts of the same kind as they have. But
this is no proof whatever that he has not, and had not originally,
instincts which stand in strict correlation with the peculiarities
of his higher physical organization. There are many facts which go
far to prove that man has, and must always have had, instincts which
afford all that is required as a starting-ground for advance in the
mechanical arts. Few persons have reflected on how much is involved
in the most purely instinctive acts, such as the throwing of a stone
or the wielding of a stick as a weapon of offence. Both these simple
acts involve the great principle of the use of artificial tools. Even
in the most rudimentary form the use of an implement fashioned for a
special purpose is absolutely peculiar to man, and arises necessarily
and instinctively out of the structure of his body. The bodies of
the lower animals are so constructed that such implements as they
are capable of directing are all supplied in the form of bodily
organs. All effects which they desire to produce, or are capable of
producing, are effected directly by the use of those organs under the
guidance of implanted instincts. There are some very curious cases
among the lower animals of a near approach to the principle involved
in the use of tools--that is to say, the use of natural force through
artificial means. Thus the common gray or hooded crow is constantly
in the habit of lifting shell-fish to a certain height in the air
and then letting them fall upon the rocks of the shore in order to
break the shells. Some species of monkey will even use any stone
which may be at hand for the purpose of striking and breaking a
nut. The elephant tears branches from the trees and uses them as an
artificial tail to fan himself and to keep off the flies. But between
these rudiments of intellectual perception and the next step--that of
adapting and fashioning an instrument for a particular purpose--there
is a gulf in which lies the whole immeasurable distance between man
and the brutes. In no case whatever do they ever use an implement
made by themselves as an intermediate agency between their bodily
organs and the work which they desire to do. Man, on the contrary,
is so constructed that in almost everything he desires to do he must
employ an agency intermediate between his bodily organs and the
effect which he wishes to produce. But this necessity, which in one
aspect is a physical disability, is correlated with a mind capable
of invention, and with certain implanted instincts which involve all
the rudiments of mechanical skill. The man who first lifted a stone
and threw it, practiced an art which not one of the lower animals is
capable of practicing. This is an act which in all probability is as
strictly instinctive and natural to man as it is to a dog to bite, or
to a bull to charge. Yet the act involves the idea and the knowledge
of projectile force and of the arts by which direction can be given
to that force. The wielding of a stick is, in all probability, an act
equally of primitive intuition, and from this to the throwing of a
stick, and the use of javelins, is an easy and natural transition.
Simple as these acts are, they involve both physical and mental
powers capable of all the developments which we see in the most
advanced industrial arts.

And here it is important to observe that even if savage races be
taken as the type of man’s primeval condition, the evidence afforded
by these races is all in favor of the conclusion that, as regards his
characteristic mental powers, man has always been man, and nothing
less. There is quite as much ingenuity and skill in the manufacture
of a knife of flint as in the manufacture of a knife of iron. And the
skill displayed by the men who used stone implements is not confined
to that which is involved in the selection of mineral substances
suitable for the purpose. That skill is also eminently displayed in
the use made of those stone implements after they had been fashioned.
The smaller implements of bone, or of horn, or of wood which the
stone knives and hatchets were employed to make are often highly
ingenious, and sometimes eminently beautiful. The truth is that high
qualities of reasoning and ready faculties of observation are called
forth in the inverse ratio of the acquired knowledge with which they
are provided, and from which they start.

It matters not which of the two theories we adopt in regard to the
origin of the human race, whether we suppose it to have proceeded
from one or from two, or even from several different centres of
creation; it matters not whether we suppose with Sir J. Lubbock that
the “first being worthy to be called a man” was born of some inferior
creature, or whether we believe with Whately, that he was truly
human in his powers, but required some “elementary instruction to
enable his faculties to begin their work.” In any case we may safely
assume that man must have begun his course in some one or more of
those portions of the earth which are genial in climate, rich in
natural fruits, and capable of yielding the most abundant return to
the very simplest arts. It is under such conditions that the first
establishment of the human race can be most easily understood; nay,
it is under such conditions only that it is conceivable at all. And
as these are the conditions which would favor the first establishment
and the most rapid increase of man, so also are these the conditions
under which knowledge would most rapidly accumulate, and the earliest
possibilities of material civilization would arise.

Now what are the changes of external circumstance which first, in the
natural course of things, would bring an adverse influence to bear
upon mankind? Here again we are on firm ground, because we know one
great cause which has been always operating, and we know its natural
and inevitable effects. This cause is simply the law of increase. It
is the consequence of that law that population is always pressing
upon the limits of subsistence. Hence the necessity of migrations,
and the force which has propelled successive generations of men
further and further, in ever-widening circles round the original
centre or centres of their birth. Then, as it would always be the
weaker tribes who would be driven from the ground which had become
overstocked, and as the lands to which they went forth were less and
less hospitable in climate and productions, the struggle for life
would be always harder. And so it always happens in the natural and
necessary course of things, that the races which were driven furthest
would be the rudest--the most engrossed in the pursuits of mere
animal existence.

Is it not true that the lowest and rudest tribes in the population of
the globe have been found at the furthest extremities of its great
continents, and in the distant islands which would be the last refuge
of the victims of violence and misfortune? “The New World” is the
continent which presents the most uninterrupted stretch of habitable
land from the highest northern to the lowest southern latitude. On
the extreme north we have the Eskimo, or Inuit race, maintaining
human life under conditions of extremest hardship, even amid the
perpetual ice of the polar seas. And what a life it is! Watching at
the blow-hole of a seal for many hours, in a temperature of 75° below
freezing-point, is the constant work of the Inuit hunter. And when
at last his prey is struck, it is his luxury to feast upon the raw
blood and blubber. To civilized man it is hardly possible to conceive
a life so wretched, and in many respects so brutal, as the life led
by this race during the long lasting night of the Arctic winter.
Not even the most extravagant theorist, as regards the plurality of
human origins, can suppose that there was an Eskimo Adam--that any
man was originally created or developed in the icy regions round the
pole. Here then we have a case, beyond all question, of races driven
by wars and migrations from the more temperate regions of the globe.
So long as they were still in those regions, the ancestors of the
Eskimo must have lived in another manner, and must have had wholly
different habits. The rigors of the region they now inhabit have
reduced this people to the condition in which we now see them, and
whatever arts their fathers knew, suited to more genial climates,
have been, and could not fail to be, utterly forgotten.

And now let us pass to the other extremity of the great continent
of America--to Cape Horn, and to the island off it, which projects
its desolate rocks into one of the most inhospitable climates in
the world. The inhabitants of Tierra del Fuego are perhaps the most
degraded among the races of mankind. How could they be otherwise?
“Their country,” says Mr. Darwin, “is a broken mass of wild rocks,
lofty hills, and useless forests; and these are viewed through mists
and endless storms. The habitable land is reduced to the stones of
the beach. In search of food they are compelled to wander unceasingly
from spot to spot, and so steep is the coast that they can only
move about in their wretched canoes.” They are habitual cannibals,
killing and eating their old women before they kill their dogs, for
the sufficient reason, as explained by themselves--“Doggies catch
otters, old women no.” Well might Darwin add, “While beholding these
savages one asks, Whence have they come? What could have tempted, or
what change compelled, a tribe of men to leave the fine regions of
the north, to travel down the Cordillera, or backbone of America, to
invent and build canoes which are not used by the tribes of Chili,
Peru, and Brazil, and then to enter on one of the most inhospitable
countries within the limits of the globe?” There can be but one
explanation. Quarrels and wars between tribe and tribe, induced by
the mere increase of numbers and the consequent pressure on the means
of subsistence, have been always, ever since man existed, driving
the weaker races further and further from the older settlements
of mankind. And when the ultimate points of the habitable world
are reached, the conditions of existence cause and necessitate a
savage and degraded life. Darwin gives the true explanation of their
condition when he says, “How little can the higher powers of the
mind be brought into play! What is there for imagination to picture,
for reason to compare, for judgment to decide upon?” The case of the
Fuegians is a case in which there can be no doubt whatever of the
causes of their degraded condition. On every side of them, and in
proportion as we recede from their wretched country, the surrounding
tribes are less wretched and better acquainted with the simpler arts.
And it is remarkable that in the case of this people we have proof
of another point of great interest and importance, viz., this--that
even the most degraded savages have all the perfect attributes of
humanity, which can be and are developed the moment they are placed
under favorable conditions. Captain Fitzroy had in 1830 carried
off some of these people to England, where they were taught the
habits and the arts of civilized life. Of one of these, who was
taken back to his own country in the _Beagle_, Mr. Darwin tells us
that his “intellect was good,” and of another that he had a “nice
disposition.” We see, therefore, that every fact and circumstance
connected with the Fuegians agrees with the supposition that their
“utter barbarism” was due entirely to the cruel conditions of their
life, and the wretched country into which they had been driven. The
Bushmen of South Africa are another case in point. It seems to be
clearly ascertained that they belong to the same race as other tribes
who are far less degraded, and that they are simply the descendants
of outcasts driven to the woods and rocks. So, again, among the great
islands of the Pacific, the natives of Van Diemen’s Land were the
most utterly degraded of all the Polynesian races.

With these facts staring us in the face, connecting themselves in
an obvious order with causes which we know to be all operating in
one direction, is it not absurd to argue that the condition of these
outcasts of the human family can be assumed as representing the
aboriginal condition of man? Is it not certain that whatever advances
toward civilization may have been made among their progenitors, such
advances must necessarily have been lost under the conditions to
which their children are reduced?

And now we can better estimate the value to be set on the arguments
which have been founded on the rude implements found in the river
drifts and in the caves of Northern Europe. I, for one, accept the
evidence which geology affords that these implements are of very
ancient date. I accept too the evidence which that science affords,
that these implements were in all probability the ice hatchets and
rude knives used by tribes which toward the close of the glacial age
had pushed their way to the furthest limits of the lands which were
then habitable. And what follows? The inevitable conclusion is, that
it must be about as safe to argue from those implements as to the
condition of man at that time, in the countries of his primeval home,
as it would be in our own day to argue from the habits and arts of
the Eskimo as to the state of civilization in London or in Paris.




  RACES OF MANKIND
  --WILLIAM HUGHES


It is estimated that the earth is inhabited, at the present time, by
1,450 millions of human beings, who are distributed over its surface
in the manner shown in the following table:

  ----------------+-----------------+---------------+--------------
                  | Area in British |  Population   | Population to
                  |  square miles   |               |  square mile
  ----------------+-----------------+---------------+--------------
  Europe          |    3,700,000    |  320,000,000  |      86
  Asia            |   17,000,000    |  830,000,000  |      47
  Africa          |   12,000,000    |  200,000,000  |      16
  North America   |                 |               |
   (including     |    8,600,000    |   68,000,000  |       8
    West Indies)  |                 |               |
  South America   |    7,000,000    |   28,000,000  |       4
  Oceania         |    3,000,000    |    4,000,000  |       1
  ----------------+-----------------+---------------+--------------

Europe is, therefore, relatively to its size, by much the most
populous division of the globe, though Asia contains the highest
number of inhabitants--amounting, indeed, to little less than
two-thirds of the entire human race. The New World is very much
less populated by man than the older known portions of the globe,
though its capabilities for the support of man fully equal those of
any of the continents of the Eastern Hemisphere. Australia, and
the scattered islands of the Pacific Ocean, are the least populous
portions of the earth, the total present number of their inhabitants
amounting to a mere fraction of the entire number.[13]

The numerical distribution of mankind undergoes great change in the
present day, when emigration from over-populated lands to distant
parts of the globe is conducted on so extensive a scale. But this
affects the distribution of _race_ in much higher measure than it
does the merely numerical distribution of man. The fast-increasing
numbers of the settlers in the fertile plains and river valleys of
the New World, descendants of European colonists, perhaps hardly more
than replaces, numerically, the native races who occupied the same
regions prior to the first visit of the white man to their shores.
It is the tendency, everywhere, of the native races to decay before
the white settler. Wars, famine, epidemic diseases, and various
social causes, again, tend to keep down the total number of the human
family--at any rate, to check the more rapid numerical growth which
it would otherwise exhibit.

The generally recognized ethnological division of mankind, with
reference to race, is into three leading families--the Caucasian,
Mongolian, and Negro. Two other families--the Malay and the
American--are commonly added to these, making five in the total. The
first-named division is that suggested by the illustrious French
naturalist, Cuvier. The five-fold division is due to the German
philosopher, Blumenbach. In the scheme of the former, the Malay and
American are regarded as sub-varieties--the one of the Caucasian and
the other of the Mongolian family. Other writers again enumerate
a much greater number of varieties of mankind, each possessing
characters sufficiently distinct to entitle it to be regarded as a
separate family.

  [In using the word _race_, as applied to different families
  of man, the division must be understood as implying “variety”
  only--not species. There is no _specific_ difference in the
  various members of the human family--no difference, that is,
  which implies anything in contradiction to the assumption that
  all mankind have had a common origin, springing from a single
  pair. The human family differs in this regard from all the lower
  members of the animal kingdom. The order “bimana” (_i. e._,
  _two-handed_), to which, in scientific classification, man is
  referred, comprises only a single genus, and a single species.

  The characteristic points of difference between the great
  families of mankind above referred to are the color of the skin,
  eyes, and hair (with the nature of the latter, whether curled,
  lank, woolly, or frizzled), and the shape of the skull. All
  other physical differences, as regards stature, form of limbs,
  and general outline of body, seem capable of ready explanation
  by reference to opposite conditions of climate, food, and habits
  of social life. But between the Caucasian and the Negro, or the
  latter and the Mongol, there is a broad and strongly marked
  difference, and one that extends over the whole historic period.]

The distinguishing attributes of the Caucasian race, physically
considered, are the oval form of the skull with the generally
symmetrical shape of the entire head and frame of body. The face is
of oval form, the features moderately prominent, the forehead arched,
the cheek-bones only slightly projecting, the mouth small, the chin
full and round; with the skin generally of light color (varying,
however, from white to a deep brown, or swarthy, hue), the eyes
and hair of various hue, and the latter often curling. The facial
angle[14] is greater in the case of the Caucasian than in either of
the other varieties of mankind.

The epithet Caucasian, applied to this branch of the human family,
is derived from the high mountain range which stretches between the
Black and Caspian Seas, and is justified by the fact that the finest
specimens of man--physically considered--have in all ages been found
in proximity to that region. The perfect forms and external beauty of
the Circassian and Georgian people--male and female alike--are well
known. The finest types of the white race (mere physical beauty alone
being considered) are to be found within the elevated region of the
Caucasian isthmus; and it has even been sought to show that the human
form degenerates in proportion as its distance thence, in whatsoever
direction, is increased. To the westward of the Caucasus (whatever
may be the case in other directions), the grace which attends on
moral and intellectual dignity is, however, added to that of merely
personal beauty.

Considered in reference to color, the Caucasian is the _white_
variety of the human family; but the latter epithet must be
considered as applicable only in a general sense, for numerous
shades of color intervene between the swarthy complexions of the
sub-tropical regions that border on the Mediterranean and the fair
skins of the people of Northern and Northwestern Europe. These
differences are doubtless in some measure dependent on climate. Yet
there must be a well-grounded difference due to other causes, since
families of whites dwell during several successive generations within
the tropics without acquiring the hue of the Negro, or settle within
the western continent without gaining any external resemblance to the
copper-colored native of the New World.

The geographical distribution of the Caucasian family in the present
day is nearly co-extensive with the land area of the globe; but
this family of nations is most numerously developed within the
temperate latitudes of the Northern Hemisphere. Western Asia, the
European continent (with the exception of a portion in the extreme
north), and the northern belt of Africa, are the proper home of the
Caucasian tribes. Thence they have colonized nearly every part of the
New World, as well as Southern Africa and the more distant regions
of Australia and New Zealand, at the opposite side of the globe.
Nine-tenths of the population of Europe belong to the Caucasian
family of man, the small minority who constitute the exception
consisting of the Turks, the Magyars, the Finns, the Laplanders, and
the Samoiedes. In Asia, the Caucasian nations form but a minority
of its vast population; they include, however, the natives of the
Arabian or Semitic stock, the Persians, the Afghans, and perhaps also
(such, at least, is the generally received theory) the Hindoos--that
is, all the people dwelling to the south of the Himalaya and to the
west of the Bay of Bengal. In Africa, the proportion of Caucasians
to its population is probably small, though they are spread over the
whole of Northern Africa, from the Mediterranean to the southern
border of the desert, and the furthest limit of Abyssinia.

In America, the Caucasian family--settling in that part of the world
as colonists only within the last three centuries and a half--is
fast supplanting the indigenous races, and comprehends two-thirds of
the total number of its inhabitants in the present day. Within the
temperate latitudes of North America, that is, within the valleys of
the Mississippi and St. Lawrence, with the Atlantic seaboard from
the Gulf of St. Lawrence southward, the white race is most numerous.
Five-sixths of the present population of North America belong, either
in whole or in part, to the Caucasian stock.

In the case of Australia, the diminution in the numbers of the
native race has been even more rapid than in the case of the Western
Continent. The white race, whose date of settlement on the Australian
shores is as yet hardly more than three-quarters of a century, now
vastly outnumbers the indigenous tribes. In Tasmania, the latter have
indeed become extinct. Even in New Zealand, which was peopled by an
athletic tribe of savages when Captain Cook visited it less than a
century since, the colonial population, planted on its shores within
the last forty years, now greatly outnumbers the native tribes,
which, moreover, undergo gradual diminution in numerical amount.

The Mongolian variety of man is distinguished by a greater approach
to squareness in the shape of the skull (viewed from above), with
greater prominence in the cheek-bones--so that lines prolonged
from the sides of the face upward meet in a point, giving the
entire framework of the head a pyramidal shape. The forehead is
comparatively low and slanting; the face and nose broad and flat;
the eyes deeply sunk, with the inner corner slanting toward the
nose; the complexion of an olive or yellowish-brown color, the
hair lank and black, the beard scanty, the stature below that of
Europeans, and the frame generally broad, square, and robust, with
high shoulders, and the neck thick and strong. These attributes are
much less strongly marked in the case of some nations of Mongol
parentage than in others, and in the instances of the Magyars, Turks,
and Finns--long settled among the Caucasian family--have in great
measure disappeared. In point of color, the Mongolian is known as the
_yellow_ variety of mankind.

The name of Mongolian, applied to this branch of the human family, is
derived from the nomad races who peopled the upland plains of Central
Asia. It comprehends, besides the Mongols proper, the vast population
of China (above a third of the entire human family), together with
the Burmese, Siamese, and other inhabitants of the southeastern
peninsula of Asia, and the native tribes of the Siberian lowland.
The Turks and the Magyars, in Southeastern and Central Europe, the
Finns, Samoiedes, and Laplanders, in the extreme north of the same
continent, and the Eskimos, in the correspondent latitudes of the New
World, belong to the same stock. In all, probably three-fifths of the
population of Asia, and more than a half of the population of the
globe, are comprehended within this division of mankind.

The Negro, or _black_ variety of mankind, is distinguished in general
by the elongated form of the skull, combined with a low facial angle.
The eyes, as well as the skin, are black; the nose broad, flat,
and thick; the cheek-bones prominent; the lips thick; the jaws
(especially the lower one) narrow and projecting; the hair woolly;
the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet flat; and the forms
of the arms and lower extremities generally clumsy and ungraceful.
These attributes, however, are very much modified in the case of some
members of the Negro race, and they belong in very various degree to
the different Negro nations who inhabit the African continent. The
black skin, woolly hair, thick lips, and elongated skull are the most
striking features of the Negro race.

Africa, to the south of the desert, is the proper home of the Negro
race. Tribes of true Negro stock occupy by far the larger portion
of that great continent to the southward of the Senegal, the Niger,
the basin of Lake Chad, and the highlands of Abyssinia. The Arabs,
however, have penetrated Central Africa within the basins of the
Niger and Lake Chad, and have been settled for upward of five
centuries upon the coasts of Eastern Africa.

The Hottentot and Caffre families, who inhabit the extreme south of
the African continent, must be classed as sub-varieties of the Negro
stock. The epithet _negroid_ is generally applied to these races.
But between the Hottentot and Negro types there is a well-marked
distinction, and not less so between the Hottentot and the Caffre
families. The color of the Hottentot is a dark and yellowish brown;
the hair short and frizzled, and distributed over the head in tufts;
the stature short. The Caffres are well made and (comparatively to
their neighbors of Hottentot race) of muscular frame--their limbs
of rounded form, their skin of deep brown color, their hair short,
black, and curly, but less woolly than that of the Negro.

The Negro race, through the iniquities of the slave-trade, has been
transplanted from Africa to the other side of the Atlantic, and now
forms a considerable item in the population of the New World. In
North America, the people of pure Negro blood amount, however, to
hardly more than a twelfth part of the total population; in South
America the proportion is perhaps rather more considerable.

The Malay, or brown family of nations, is distinguished, besides the
color of the skin, by lank, coarse, and black hair; with flat faces
and obliquely set eyes. Their stature is below the average height
either of the Caucasian or the Negro, and the figure generally square
and robust.

If the nations of the Malay family are to be referred to one of the
three greater divisions, they must be regarded as a sub-variety
either of the Mongol or the Negro stock. Proximity of geographical
position, with other circumstances, would lead us to prefer the
former. The Papuans, however, who inhabit New Guinea and the adjacent
islands to the eastward, exhibit many of the characteristics of the
Negro type, and the native race of Australia is of the Papuan or
Austral-Negro family. There is, in truth, throughout the Australian
and Polynesian division of the globe, a well-marked distinction
between the brown and the black races. The former, who belong to the
true Malay family, comprehend, with the Malays proper (that is, the
bulk of the inhabitants of the Malay peninsula and the adjacent
islands), the people of Madagascar; also the New Zealanders, and the
inhabitants of most of the smaller Polynesian archipelagoes, from
the Sandwich Islands on the north to the Society, Navigators, and
Friendly groups in the south. The Austral-Negro or Papuan division,
on the other hand, includes the native tribes of the Australian
continent and the adjacent island of Tasmania (the latter now all
but extinct), with the inhabitants of New Guinea, the Louisiade
archipelago, New Britain, the Solomon Islands, the New Hebrides, New
Caledonia, and the Fiji Islands.

The American, or red variety of mankind, has its home in the two
great continents which are together known as the New World. Its
distinguishing attributes are a reddish or copper-colored skin, with
long, coarse, black hair (which is never crisped like that of the
Negro, or curled, as that of the white often is), and scanty beard.
The cheek-bones are prominent, but more arched and rounded than those
of the Mongol, without being so angular, or projecting at the sides;
the orbit generally deep, and the outer angle slightly elevated. In
point of temperament, the Indian (as the native inhabitant of the
American wilderness is termed) is cold and phlegmatic to an unusual
degree, and he manifests an extraordinary insensibility to bodily
pain. His bodily senses--of sight, hearing, and smell--are remarkably
acute. These, as well as many other attributes of the Indian race,
have probably resulted from the conditions of the hunter’s life,
pursued through many generations.

The above characteristics, however, are exhibited in widely
different measure in the case of the numerous native tribes and
nations that are found through the whole wide extent of the American
continent, though all of them (with the exception of the Eskimos)
are classed under the common term Indian. The native races of South
America are generally further removed than those of North America
from the higher type of the American family, and they become
progressively more degraded toward its furthest extremity. Some of
the Indian tribes who dwell in the Brazilian forest exhibit a degree
of personal ugliness, and a degradation of condition in general,
which contrasts strikingly with that of the higher classes of North
American Indians, and the native savages of Tierra del Fuego are
among the most misshapen and degraded of the human race. In these and
some other cases the distortion of feature, and even that observable
in the shape of the head, is produced by artificial means, applied in
infancy.

The Indian family of nations makes, perhaps, nearer approach to the
Mongol than to either of the other two great divisions of mankind,
and must be regarded as a sub-variety of that family, if three great
varieties only be allowed. The Eskimos, who inhabit the extreme
northern shores of the New World, are uniformly regarded as of Mongol
origin.




  THE HUMAN RACE
  --LOUIS FIGUIER


What is man? A profound thinker, Cardinal de Bonald, has said:
“Man is an intelligence assisted by organs.” We would fain adopt
this definition, which brings into relief the true attribute of
man, intelligence, were it not defective in drawing no sufficient
distinction between man and the brute. It is a fact that animals
are intelligent and that their intelligence is assisted by organs.
But their intelligence is infinitely inferior to that of man. It
does not extend beyond the necessities of attack and defence, the
power of seeking food, and a small number of affections or passions,
whose very limited scope merely extends to material wants. With
man, on the other hand, intelligence is of a high order, although
its range is limited, and it is often arrested, powerless and mute,
before the problems itself proposes. In bodily formation man is an
animal, he lives in a material envelope, of which the structure
is that of the Mammalia; but he far surpasses the animal in the
extent of his intellectual faculties. The definition of man must
therefore establish this relation which animals bear to ourselves,
and indicate, if possible, the degree which separates them. For this
reason we shall define man: _an organized, intelligent being, endowed
with the faculty of abstraction_.

By saying that man appeared for the first time upon the globe at the
commencement of the Quaternary Period, we establish the fact, which
is agreeable to the cosmogony of Moses, that man was formed after
the other animals, and that by his advent he crowned the edifice of
animal creation.

At the Quaternary Period almost all the animals of our time had
already seen the light, and a certain number of animal species
existed which were shortly to disappear. When man was created,
the mammoth, the great bear, the cave tiger, and the cervus
megaceros--animals more bulky, more robust, and more agile than the
corresponding species of our time--filled the forests and peopled the
plains. The first men were therefore contemporary with the woolly
elephant, the cave bear and tiger; they had to contend with these
savage phalanxes, as formidable in their number as their strength.
Nevertheless, in obedience to the laws of nature, these animals were
to disappear from the globe and give place to smaller or different
species, while man, persisting in the opposite direction, increased
and multiplied, as the Scripture has said, and gradually spread into
all inhabitable countries, taking possession of his empire, which
daily increased with the progress of his intelligence.

Did man see the light at any one spot of the earth, and at that
alone, and is it possible to indicate the region which was, so to
say, the cradle of humanity? Or are we to believe that, in the first
instance, man appeared in several places at the same time? That he
was created and has always remained in the very localities he now
inhabits? That the Negro was born in the burning regions of Central
Africa, the Laplander or the Mongolian in the cold regions to which
he is now confined?

There is a school of philosophers who assert that man was manifold in
his creation, that each type of humanity originated in the region to
which it is now attached, and that it was not emigration followed by
the action of climate, circumstances, and customs which gave birth to
the different races of man. This opinion has been upheld in a work by
M. Georges Pouchet, son of the well-known naturalist of Rouen.

If there existed several centres of human creation, they should
be indicated, and it should be shown that the men who dwell there
nowadays have never been connected with other populations. M. Georges
Pouchet preserves prudent silence upon this question; he avoids
defining the locus of any one of these supposed multiple creations.

We, on our part, think that man had on the globe one centre of
creation, that, fixed in the first instance in a particular region,
he has radiated in every direction from that point, and by his
wanderings, coupled with the rapid multiplication of his descendants,
he has ultimately peopled all the inhabitable regions of the earth.

We need hardly say that animals, like plants, are attached to various
localities which they rarely quit with impunity, since they have not
the faculty of acclimatizing themselves at will. The elephant lives
only in India and in certain parts of Africa; the hippopotamus and
giraffe in other countries of the same continent; monkeys exist in
very few portions of the globe, and if we consider their different
species, we shall find that the place of abode of each species is
very limited. For instance, of the larger apes the orang-outang is
found only in Borneo and Sumatra, and the gorilla in a small corner
of Western Africa. Had man originated in all those places where now
his different races are found, he would stand alone as an exception
among organized beings.

Reasoning then by induction, that is, applying to man all that we
observe to obtain generally among beings living on the surface of
the globe, we come to the conclusion that the human species, in
common with every vegetable or animal species, had but one centre of
creation.

Around the central tableland of Asia are found the three organic and
fundamental types of man, that is to say, the white, the yellow,
and the black. The black type has been somewhat scattered, although
it is still found in the south of Japan, in the Malay Peninsula, in
the Andaman Isles, and in the Philippines, at Formosa. The yellow
type forms a large portion of the actual population of Asia, and it
is well known whence came those white hordes that invaded Europe at
times prehistoric and in more recent ages; those conquerors belonged
to the Aryan or Persian race, and they came from Central Asia.

Around the central tableland of Asia, we find not only the three
fundamental types of the human species, but the three types of human
speech. Does not this, therefore, afford ground for presumption, if
not actual proof, that man first appeared in this very region which
Scripture assigns as the birthplace of the human race?

It is from this central tableland of Asia, radiating so to say around
this point of origin, that man has progressively occupied every part
of the earth.

Migration commenced at a very early period; the facility with which
our species becomes habituated to every climate and accommodates
itself to variations of temperature, taken in connection with the
nomadic character which distinguished primitive populations, explains
to us the displacement of the earlier inhabitants of the earth.
Soon, means of navigation, although rude, were added to the power
of traveling by land, and man passed from the continent to distant
islands, and thus peopled the archipelagoes as well as the mainland.
By means of transport, effected in canoes formed from the trunks of
trees barely hollowed out, the archipelagoes of the Indian Ocean, and
finally Australia, were gradually peopled.

The American continent formed no exception to this law of the
invasion of the globe by the emigration of human phalanxes. It
is a matter of no great difficulty to pass from Asia to America,
across Behring Strait, which is almost always covered with ice, thus
permitting of almost a dry passage from one continent to the other.
Thus it is that the inhabitants of Northern Asia have found their way
into the north of the New World.

This communication of one terrestrial hemisphere with the other is
less surprising when we consider what modern historical works have
shown, namely, that already about the Tenth Century, which would
be nearly 400 years before Christopher Columbus, navigators from
the coast of Norway had penetrated to the other hemisphere. The
inhabitants of Mexico and Chili possess most authentic historical
archives, which prove that a most advanced civilization flourished
there at an early period. Gigantic monuments which still remain bear
witness to the great antiquity of the civilization of the Incas
(Peru) and of the Aztecs (Mexico). It is reasonable to suppose that
the inhabitants of America, who thus advanced at a rapid pace in the
path of civilization, descended from the hordes of Northern Asia
which reached the New World by traversing the ice of Behring Strait.

To explain, therefore, the presence of man upon all parts of the
continent, and in the islands, it is not necessary to insist upon
the existence of several centres, where our species was created. If
popular traditions went to show that all the regions now inhabited
have always been occupied by the same people, and that those who are
found there have constantly lived in the same places, there might be
reason to admit the hypothesis of multiple creations of the human
race; but, on the contrary, traditions for the most part teach us
that each country has been peopled progressively by means of conquest
or emigration. Tradition shows that the nomadic state of existence
has universally preceded fixed settlements. It is, therefore,
probable that the first men were constantly on the move. A flood of
barbarians, coming from Central Asia, overflowed the Roman Empire,
and the Vandals penetrated even into Africa. Modern migrations have
been conducted on a still vaster scale, for at the present day we
find America almost wholly occupied by Europeans; English, Spanish,
and other people of the Latin race fill the vast American hemisphere,
and the primitive populations of the New World have almost entirely
disappeared, annihilated by the iron yoke of the conqueror.

The continent of Asia was peopled little by little by branches of the
Aryan race, who came down from the plains of Central Asia, directing
their course toward India. As to Africa: that continent received its
contingent of population through the Isthmus of Suez, the valley of
the Nile, and the coasts of Arabia, by the aid of navigation.

There is therefore nothing to show that humanity had several distinct
nuclei. It is clear that man started from one point alone, and that
through his power of adapting himself to the most different climates,
he has, little by little, covered the whole face of the inhabitable
earth.

There is another problem. Did the white, the yellow, and the black
man exist from the first moment of the appearance of our species
upon the globe, or have we to explain the formation of these three
fundamental races by the action of climate, by any special form of
nourishment, the result of local resources; in other words, by the
action of the soil?

Innumerable dissertations have been written with a view of explaining
the origin of these three races, and of connecting them with the
climate or the soil. But it must be admitted that the problem is
hardly capable of solution. The influence which a warm climate
exercises upon the color of the skin is a well-known fact, and it
is a matter of common observation that the white European, if
transported into the heart of Africa, or carried to the coast of
Guinea, transmits to his descendants the brown color which the skin
of the Negro possesses, and that in their turn the offspring of
Negroes, who have been brought into northern countries, become as
they descend paler and paler and end by being white. But the color of
the skin is not the only characteristic of a race; the Negro differs
from the white, less by the color of his skin than by the structure
of the face and cranium, as also by the proportion of his members to
one another. Is it not, moreover, a fact that the hottest countries
are inhabited by people with white skins? Such, for instance, are the
Touaricks of the African Sahara, and the Fellahs of Egypt. On the
other hand, men with black faces are found in countries enjoying a
mean temperature, as, for instance, the inhabitants of California on
the coast of the Pacific Ocean.

We have now another question to consider. Should these white, yellow,
or black men, to whom we must add those who are brown and red, all of
whom differ one from another in the color of their skin, in height,
in their physiognomy, and in their outward appearance, be grouped
into different species, or are we to regard them merely as varieties
of species--that is to say, _races_?

Buffon, in his chapter upon _man_, a work which we can always
read again with admiration and advantage, contents himself with
bringing forward the three fundamental types of the human species
which have been known from the first under the names of the white,
black, and yellow race. But these three types in themselves do
not exemplify every human physiognomy. The ancient inhabitants of
America, commonly known as the Red-Skins, are entirely overlooked
in this classification, and the distinction between the Negro and
the white man can not always be easily pointed out, for in Africa
the Abyssinians, the Egyptians, and many others, in America the
Californians, and in Asia the Hindoos, Malays, and Javanese are
neither white nor black.

[Illustration: American Reptiles

1 and 2, Water Snakes (_Masticophis_); 3, Horned Toad (_Phrynosoma_);
4, 5, 11, 12, 13, American Toads; 6, Kangaroo Lizard (_Crotaphytus_);
7, Gila Monster (_Heloderma_); 8, Chuckwalla; 9, Harlequin Snake
(_Elaps_); 10, Rattlesnake (_Crotalus)_]

Blumenbach, the most profound anthropologist of the last century,
and author of the first actual treatise upon the natural history
of man, distinguished in his Latin work, _De Homine_, five races
of men, the Caucasian, Mongolian, Ethiopian, Malay, and American.
Another anthropologist, Prochaska, adopted the divisions pointed
out by Blumenbach, but united under the name of the _white race_,
Blumenbach’s Caucasian and Mongolian groups, and added the _Hindoo
race_.

The eloquent naturalist Lacépède, in his _Histoire naturelle de
l’Homme_, added to the races admitted by Blumenbach the _hyperborean
race_, comprising the inhabitants of the northern portion of the
globe in either continent.

Cuvier fell back upon Buffon’s division, admitting only the white,
black, and yellow races, from which he simply derived the _Malay_ and
_American_ races.

A naturalist of renown, Virey, author of _l’Histoire naturelle du
Genre humain_, _l’Histoire naturelle de la Femme_, and of many
other clever productions upon natural history and particularly
anthropology, gave much attention to the classification of the human
races. But he was not favorable to the unity of our species, being
led to entertain the opinion that the human species was twofold.
This was the starting point of an erroneous deviation in the ideas
of naturalists who wrote after Virey. We find Bory de Saint Vincent
admitting as many as fifteen species of men, and another naturalist,
Desmoulins, doubtless influenced by a feeling of emulation,
distinguished sixteen human species, which, moreover, were not the
same as those admitted by Bory de Saint Vincent.

This course of classification might have been followed to a much
greater extent, for the differences among men are so great that if
strict rule is not adhered to it is impossible to fix any limit to
species. Unless therefore the principle of unity has been fully
conceded at starting, the investigation may result in the admission
of a truly indefinite quantity.

This is the principle which pervades the writings of the most
learned of all the anthropologists of our age, Dr. Pritchard, author
of a _Natural History of Man_, which in the original text formed
ten volumes, but of which the French language possesses but a very
incomplete translation.

Dr. Pritchard holds that all people of the earth belong to the same
species; he is a partisan of the unity of the human species, but
is not satisfied with any of the classifications already proposed,
and which were founded upon organic characteristics. He, in fact,
entirely alters the aspect of the ordinary classifications which
are to be met with in natural history. He commences by pointing
out three families, which, he asserts, were in history the first
human occupants of the earth: namely, the _Aryan_, _Semitic_, and
_Egyptian_. Having described these three families, Pritchard passes
to the people who, as he says, radiated in various directions from
the regions inhabited by them, and proceeded to occupy the entire
globe.

This mode of classification, as we have pointed out, leaves the
beaten track trodden by other natural historians. For this reason it
has not found favor among modern anthropologists, and this disfavor
has reacted upon the work itself, which, notwithstanding, is the most
complete and exact of all that we possess upon man. Although it has
been adopted by no other author, Pritchard’s classification of the
human race appears to us to be the most sound in principle.

The classification of the human race which we propose to follow,
modifying it where in our opinion it may appear to be necessary, is
due to a Belgian naturalist, M. d’Omalius d’Halloy. It acknowledges
five races of men: the white, black, yellow, brown, and red.

When we examine the form and relative size of the brain in
ascending the series of mammiferous animals, we find that this
organ increases in volume, and progresses, so to say, toward the
superior characteristics which it is to display in the human
species. The brain increases in importance from the zoophyte to
the ape. But, in comparing the brain of the ape with that of man,
an important difference becomes at once apparent. The brain of the
gorilla, orang-outang, or chimpanzee, which are the apes that bear
the greatest resemblance to man, and which for that reason are
designated _anthropomorphous_ apes, is very much smaller than that of
man.

The senses, taken individually, are not more developed in man than
they are in certain animals; but in man they are characterized
by their harmony, their perfect equilibrium, and their admirable
appropriation to a common end. Man, it will at once be admitted,
is not so keen of sight as the eagle, nor so subtle of hearing as
the hare, nor does he possess the wonderful scent of the dog. His
skin is far from being as fine and impressionable as that which
covers the wing of a bat. But, while among animals, one sense always
predominates to the disadvantage of the rest, and the individual is
thus forced to adopt a mode of existence which works hand in hand
with the development of this sense, with man, all the senses possess
almost equal delicacy, and the harmony of their association makes up
for what may be wanting in individual power.

Man is certainly better off, as regards the sense of sight, than a
large majority of animals. Instead of being placed upon different
sides of his head, looking in opposite directions, and receiving
two images which can not possibly be alike, his eyes are directed
forward, and regard similar objects, by which means the impression is
doubled.

The sense of touch in man reaches a degree of perfection which it
does not attain in animals. How marvelous is the sense of touch when
exercised by applying the extremities of the fingers, the part of the
body the best suited to this function, and how much more wonderful
is the organ called the hand, which applies itself in so admirable
a manner to the most different surfaces whose extent, form, or
qualities we wish to ascertain!

“Man alone,” says Galen, “is furnished with hands, as he alone is a
participator in wisdom.” The hand is a most marvelous instrument,
and one most admirably adapted to his nature. Remove his hand, and
man can no longer exist. By its means he is prepared for defence
or attack, for peace or war. What need has he of horns or talons?
With his hand, he grasps the sword and lance, he fashions iron and
steel. While with horns, teeth, and talons animals can only attack
or defend at close quarters, man is able to project from afar the
instruments with which he is armed. Shot from his hand, the feathered
arrow reaches at a great distance the heart of an enemy, or stops
the flight of a passing bird. Although man is less agile than the
horse and the deer, yet he mounts the horse, guides him, and thus
successfully hunts the deer. He is naked and feeble, yet his hand
procures him a covering of iron and steel. His body is unprotected
against the inclemencies of climate, yet his hand finds him a
convenient abode, and furnishes him with clothing. By the use of his
hand, he gains dominion and mastery over all that lives upon the
earth, in the air, or in the depths of the sea.

The sense of hearing, without attaining in man the perfection which
it reaches in certain animals, is nevertheless of great delicacy, and
becomes an infinite resource of instruction and pure enjoyment. Not
only are differences of intonation, intensity, and timbre recognized
by our ear, but the most delicate shades of rhythm and tone, the
relations of simultaneous and successive sounds which give the
sentiment of melody and harmony, are appreciated, and furnish us with
the first and most natural of the arts--music.

Let us now pass to the bony portion of the human body, and consider
first of all the head. The head is shared by two regions, the cranium
and the face. The predominance of either of these regions over the
other depends upon the development of the organs which belong to each.

The cranium contains the cerebral mass, that is, the seat of the
intellect; the face is occupied by the organs appertaining to the
principal senses. In animals, the face greatly exceeds the cranium in
extent; the reverse is, however, the case with man. It is but rarely
that with him the face assumes importance at the expense of the
cranium--in other words, that the jaws become elongated, and give to
the human face the aspect of a brute.

There is in the human face an anatomical characteristic of greater
importance than any taken from the elongation of the cranium; that
is, the projection forward, or the uprightness of the jaws. The term
_prognathism_ (from πρὸ, forward, and γνάθος, jaw) is applied to this
jutting forward of the teeth and jaws, and _orthognathism_ (from
ὀρθὸς, straight, γηάθς, jaw) to the latter arrangement.

It was long admitted that prognathism, or projection of the jaws,
was peculiar to the Negro race. But this opinion has been forced to
yield to the discovery that projecting jaws exist among people in
no way connected with the Negro. In the midst of white populations
this characteristic is frequently met with; it is occasionally found
among the English, and is by no means rare at Paris, especially
among women. Prognathism would appear to be characteristic of a
small European race dwelling to the south of the Baltic Sea, the
Esthonians, and which itself is but the residue of the _primitive
Mongolian_ race. It is probably the mixture of Esthonian blood
with that of the inhabitants of Central Europe, which causes the
appearance in our large cities of individuals whose faces are
prognathous.

We can not close our remarks upon the face without speaking of a
curious relation between it and the cranium, which has been much
abused; we allude to the _facial angle_. By _facial angle_ is meant
the angle which results from the union of two lines, one of which
touches the forehead, the other of which, drawn from the orifice of
the ear, meets the former line at the extremity of the front teeth.

The Dutch anatomist Camper, after having compared Greek and Roman
statues, or medals of either nationality, assumed that the cause of
the intellectual superiority which distinguished Greek from Roman
physiognomies was to be found in the fact that, with the Greeks,
the facial angle is larger than in Roman heads. Starting with this
observation, Camper pursued his inquiries until it occurred to him to
advance the theory that the increase of the facial angle may be taken
in the human race as a sign of superior intelligence.

This observation was correct, insomuch as it separated men from
apes, and carrion birds from other birds. But its application to
different varieties of men, as a measure of their various degrees
of intelligence, was a pretension doomed to be sacrificed to future
investigations. Dr. Jacquart, assistant naturalist in the Museum
of Natural History at Paris, calling to his aid an instrument he
invented, by which the facial angle is rapidly measured, has, in
our day, made numerous studies of the facial angle of human beings.
M. Jacquart found that this angle can not be taken as a measure of
intelligence, for he observed it to be a right angle in individuals
who, with respect to intelligence, were in no way superior to others
whose facial angle was much smaller.

Erect carriage is another of the characteristics which distinguish
the human species from all other animals, including the ape, by
whom this position is but rarely assumed, and then accidentally and
unnaturally.

Everything in the human skeleton is calculated to ensure a vertical
posture. In the first place, the head articulates with the vertebral
column at a point so situated that, when this vertebral column is
erect, the head, by means of its own weight, remains supported in
equilibrium. Besides this, the shape of the head, the direction of
the face, the position of the eye, and the form of the nostrils all
require that man should walk erect on two feet.

J. J. Rousseau was, therefore, very far from right when he contended
that man was born to go on all fours.




INDEX


  A

  Abbott, C. C., 1653

  Abdelrahman Sûfi, 119

  Acacia, 928, 950

  Acalephian Hydroids, 459

  Acalephs, 459

  Acanth family, 483

  Acephala, 459

  Achenar, 57, 98, 147

  Acorns, 1177

  Acrogens, 455, 483, 1000

  Adams, Prof., 431

  Adanson, Michel, 994

  Adanson’s region, 940

  Adelsberg, cave of, 617-20

  Æpyornis, 1524

  Affinities, 1511-12

  Afghans, 1672

  Africa, deserts of, 947
    fauna of, 1548-52
    races of, 1675
    vegetation in, 909-15

  Agardh, 1266, 1267

  Agassiz, 1213, 1297

  Agriculture, progress of, 1091-99

  Air, 773, 778-84

  Airy, Sir George, 316, 806

  Albatross, 1523

  Alcor, 67, 81, 126-27, 196-97

  Aldebaran, 57, 63, 96, 116, 124, 152, 187, 316

  Alga, red snow, 514-15, 930

  Algæ, 454, 455, 710, 712, 887, 888

  Algol, 85, 128, 193, 208, 216-20

  Alhazan, 799

  Allen, Grant, 1003, 1104

  Alligators, 1392, 1557, 1570, 1623

  Aloes, 953

  Alpha, Capricorni, 127
    Centauri, 41, 57, 63, 99, 125, 134, 199, 204-5, 309
    Cruci, 57
    Eridani, 63
    Orionis, 63

  Alphabet, Greek, 65

  Alphard, 188

  Alpine plants, 930

  Alps, glaciers of the, 510-13

  Al-Sûfi, 60, 62, 63, 67, 68, 69, 163, 188, 193, 206, 219, 220

  Altair, 57, 76, 85

  Alternate generations, 962, 964-65, 1329

  Amazon, the, 623, 625

  America, fauna of, 1540, 1552-57
    races of, 1672-73, 1677-78
    vegetation in, 915-26

  American Indians, 1677-78

  Ammonites, 672

  Amœba, 977-78

  Anaxagoras, 376

  Anchovy, 1544

  Anderson, Dr., 68, 228-38

  Andromeda, Constellation of, 78, 84

  Andromedes, 281

  Anemones, 1361

  Angiosperms, 455, 890, 891-92, 958, 967

  Angler-fish, 1569

  Angström, 818

  Animal, kingdom, 1296-1300, 1535
    life, types of, 480

  Animals, classification of, 1301-4
    death-feigning instinct of, 1577-82
    distribution of, 1520-35, 1561
    dwellings of, 1601-2
    fishing of, 1565-77
    fur-bearing, 1547, 1554
    hunting by, 1565-77
    invertebrate, 1536
    mimicry in, 1596, 1598-99
    and plants, 976-78, 979-84, 1478
    vertebrate, 1535

  Annelids, 1603

  Annulariæ, 469

  Anogens, 455

  Antares, 57, 76, 188

  Ant-eater, 1571

  Antennæ, 1439-45

  Antherozoids, 1039

  Anthers, 868, 1002

  Antinous, 78

  Ant-lions, 1417, 1568

  Ants, 1408, 1409-11

  Apes, 1626

  Aphaniptera, 1419

  Aphides, 1409-10, 1420

  Apogamy, 967

  Apospory, 967

  Apothecia, 1212

  Apple, of Carthage, 1095
    Persian, 1095

  Apteryx, 1524, 1528, 1561

  Aquarius, 78

  Arabians, 986, 1672, 1675

  Arabs, the, 116-20

  Arago, 54

  Ararat, Mount, 500

  Archegonia, 963

  Archimedes, 64

  Arcturus, 57, 63, 75, 86, 87, 122, 187, 315

  Argelander, 58, 59, 62, 66, 68

  Aristolochia, 956

  Aristotle, 284
    of Stagira, 986

  Armadillo, 1555

  Arnebia echioides. See _Prophet-Plant_

  Arnold, Dr., 1069

  Aroideæ, 952

  Arrow, the, 77

  Articulata, 481, 1303

  Articulates, 459, 460

  Arum, 952

  Asia, fauna of, 1546-48
    races of, 1672
    vegetation in, 905-9

  Ass, wild, 1546

  Asteroids. See _Planetoids_

  Astrocopium, 119

  Astronomers, the first, 26

  Atacama, desert of, 665

  Atlantosaurus, 718

  Atlas, 64
    of Southern Stars, 61

  Atlases, celestial, 65-66

  Atmosphere, earth’s, 773-84

  Atolls, 689-93, 699-707

  Aurora, Borealis, 813-19
    spectrum of, 346-47, 818
    and sun, 817-18

  Ausonius, 88-89

  Australia, flora of, 886, 926-28
    races of, 1673
    vegetation in, 926-29

  Avebury, Lord, 1105


  B

  Baboons, 1529

  Bacon, Roger, 799

  Bacteria, 648-54, 1131-35

  Badger, 1616, 1617

  Baer, Von, 1294

  Baker, Sir S., 1566

  Balance, the, 78

  Balata, the, 1153-54

  Balloon ascensions, 776-77

  Baltimore Oriole, 1631

  Bamboo, 1115-22

  Banana, 942-43, 952

  Banisteria, 953, 956

  Banks, Sir Joseph, 1387

  Banyan tree, 1169-70

  Baobab, 941, 950

  Barley, 944

  Barometer, 785

  Barnard, Prof., 155, 159, 263, 391, 419, 420

  Bate, Spence, 1375, 1376

  Bates, W. H., 1594, 1595, 1599

  Bathybius haeckelii, 1306

  Batrachia, 1379

  Bats, 1547, 1550, 1555-56

  Bauhinas, 953, 956

  Baxendell, 344, 348

  Bayer, John, 105

  _Beagle_, the, 1665

  Bear, the Great, 80-81, 122
    the Little, 77, 82

  Bears, 1543, 1546, 1553

  Beaumont, Elie de, 572

  Beaver, 1542, 1554

  Beavers, 1639-46

  Bee, 1408, 1552
    eyes of, 1448
    sting of, 1436

  Beechnuts, 1178

  Bee Hive in Cancer, 66, 130, 167, 176

  Bees, 1426-27, 1478-79, 1496-98
    wings of, 1429

  Beetles, 1411-13, 1433-34, 1435, 1440, 1578

  Behrmann, 61, 62, 66

  Belemnites, 672

  Bellatrix, 124

  Bellerophon, 470

  Bélopolsky, 315

  Belts, homoiozoic, 1521

  Bennett, Mr., 755, 758-59

  Berenice’s Hair, 78, 153

  Berosus, 501

  Beta, Centauri, 57, 63
    Crucis, 57

  Betelgeuse, 57, 96, 124, 128, 187, 188

  Bibra, 755

  Biela, 300

  Bignonia, 953, 956, 1165

  Birds, 1578, 1582-93, 1622, 1624
    of Africa, 1550-51
    of America, 1556
    of Asia, 1547
    of Australia, 1559-60
    of Europe, 1544
    of New Zealand, 1561, 1608-9
    of paradise, 1547
    death-feigning of, 1577-82
    emotions of, 1593
    extinct, 1524-25, 1561
    flight of, 1583
    gigantic, 1524-25
    migration of, 1523, 1537, 1590-92
    mimicry in, 1596-97
    moulting of, 1586
    nests of, 1587-90, 1629-34
    pairing of, 1586
    primeval, 489-90
    sounds of, 1584-85
    tastes of, 1592

  Birthwort, 1071-72

  Bison, 1531

  Bitter Lakes, 587

  Bivalves, 459

  Blumenbach, 1669, 1687

  Blume’s region, 940

  Boa Constrictor, 1548, 1557

  Bode, 397

  Bonald, Cardinal de, 1679

  Bond, W. C., 418

  Bonpland’s region, 941

  Boötes, 75, 86, 87

  Botanical regions, 939-41, 1143

  Botany, 859, 985-86

  Bower-bird, 1592, 1627-28

  Brachiopods, 470, 482, 671

  Brahmaputra, the, 623, 624

  Brauer, 1422

  Brazil-nut, 1179

  Bread fruit, 942, 945

  Brongniart, 471, 472, 995, 996

  Brown, Robert, 999
    region of, 941

  Buckwheat, 945

  Buff, Prof., 735

  Buffalo, 1553
    musk, 1533

  Buffon, 1528, 1532, 1583, 1686

  Bull, the, 78, 94, 96, 123-24

  Bullhead, the, 1609

  Bunt, 1200

  Burian, the, 1144-45

  Burmeister, 1401

  Burnham, 201

  Bush, Australian, 1139, 1140

  Bustard, 1542

  Butterflies, 1461-62, 1594-95
    wings of, 1431-33

  Byron, 762


  C

  Cacao, 920

  Cachalot, 1561, 1563

  Cactus, 917, 957, 1180-89

  Caddis worms, 1404

  Caffres, 1675-76

  Calamites, 468, 473-74, 873

  Calms, Belt of, 786

  Calyx, 867-68, 1002

  Camel, 1545, 1549

  Camelopard, 1531

  Camelopardus, 78

  Camoens, 762

  Campbell, Prof., 392-93

  Camper, 1693

  Canary Isles, 932-34

  Cancer, 78

  Candolle, A. P. de, 985, 995, 997, 1186, 1466

  Candolle’s region, 940

  Canes Venatici, 78

  Canis Major, 125

  Cannibalism, 1657

  Canopus, 57, 63

  Caoutchouc, 1163, 1166, 1169

  Capella, 57, 63, 76, 85, 116, 122, 187, 315

  Capron, 819

  Carapace, 1394

  Carboniferous, Limestone, 464
    plants, 468, 473, 873

  Carboniferous Period, 457, 464-79
    fishes of the, 484-86

  Carnivora, 1518-19, 1536, 1546, 1552, 1565

  Carpels, 869, 1003

  Carpenter, Dr., 730, 731, 736, 741, 754

  Cashew-nut, 1179

  Caspian Sea, the, 581-82, 583-85

  Cassava-meal, 1164

  Cassini, 226, 285, 360, 377, 378, 418

  Cassiopeia, 78, 84

  Cassiopeia’s Chair, 123

  Cassowary, 1524, 1526, 1560

  Castor, 98, 122, 123, 198, 207-8

  Casuarina, 951

  Caterpillars, 1421, 1459-60, 1602

  Catheturus, 1622

  Catingas, the, 922

  Caucasian race, the, 1670-73

  Cavalier, the, 81

  Cave, of Adelsberg, 617-20
    Azure, of Capri, 709
    Mammoth, 615

  Caves, 612-18

  Ceiba, 950

  Celacanths, 484

  Cells, 1299

  Celsius, 816

  Cenotes, 609

  Centaur, the, 98, 99

  Cephalaspis, 483, 484, 671

  Cephalopoda, 459, 481

  Cephalopods, 1576

  Cepheus, 78

  Cerealia, 943-45

  Cestracions, 484

  Cetacea, 1516, 1536, 1561-65

  Cetaceans, 676

  Cetus, 98-9

  Chair, the, 77

  Chalcididæ, 1449-58

  Chaldean shepherds, the, 26

  Chalk Age, 483

  Chambered shells, 459

  Chamisso, 691

  Chamisso’s region, 940

  Chaparrals, 1140

  Chariot, the, 75, 77, 81
    of David, 80
    the Little, 82

  Cherioptera, 1536

  Cheirostemon, 950

  Chelinous, 1577

  Chelonian reptiles, 1395-1401

  Chestnut, 931, 1174-77

  Chimborazo, 776

  Chimpanzees, 1529, 1530, 1550, 1626

  China, agriculture in, 1092, 1096

  Chinchilla, 1555

  Chi Persei, 180

  Chlorophyll, 897

  Chrysalis, 1460, 1464

  Cicada, 1420

  Cicadæ, 1436

  Cicero, 359

  Cilia, 1010, 1039, 1291-92

  Cinchona, 919

  Circassians, 1671

  Cirripeds, 1500

  Cladothrix odorifera, 652, 653

  Clairaut, 292

  Clams, 459

  Clark, Alvan, 203, 256

  Clerke, Agnes M., 191

  Climate, change of, 502-5, 1127, 1650

  Climbing perch, 1352-53

  Clouds, 819-28
    cirro-cumulus, 823
    cirro-macula, 823-24, 825
    cirrus, 824-28
    colors of, 825-26
    cumulo-stratus, 825
    cumulus, 820-21, 822-23
    names, popular, 784
    nimbus, 825
    “scud,” 825
    stratus, 820-21, 822, 823-24

  Club-mosses, 887, 961-63, 1229-30

  Coal, 465-67, 474-79, 872, 886-87

  Coal-measures, 464
    flora of the, 471-79, 1230

  Coal-sack, the, 134, 135

  Coasts, length of the, 708

  Cobra, 1552

  Coccosteus, 470, 483, 484

  Cochineal, 1185, 1420-21

  Cockchafer, 1441, 1464

  Cocoanut, 942

  Cocoon, 1460

  Cœlum, 78

  Coleoptera, 1411-13

  Coleridge, 762

  Columbus, 1263, 1267

  Comet, Biela’s, 300
    Encke’s, 299, 304
    Halley’s, 38
    of 1472, 288
    of 1680, 290, 296
    of 1744, 41
    of 1811, 39-40, 41
    of 1843, 303
    of 1848, 298

  Comets, 37-42, 132, 282-307
    great, 298-99

  Common, Dr., 165-66, 244, 253, 260, 264

  Condor, 1523, 1538, 1556

  Confucius, 501

  Conifers, 472, 873, 884, 931

  Constellations, the, 31, 64, 75, 77-79, 101-3
    the Chinese, 76
    Northern, 80-88
    Schiller’s, 104-5
    Southern, 97-100, 147
    Zodiacal, 88-97

  Cook, Capt., 1673

  Copernicus, 353

  Coral-animals, 459

  Coral formations, 689-707
    reefs, 689-707

  Corallines, 1258-59, 1331

  Corals, 471, 481, 707

  Corolla, 868, 1002

  Corona Borealis, 86, 123

  Coronæ, 826, 827

  Corvus, the Crow, 98

  Cotopaxi, 517, 545, 550

  Cotyledon, 1001

  Cowbird, 1605

  Cow-tree, 920-21, 1167, 1170

  Coxwell, 776-77

  Crab, the. See _Cancer_

  Crabbe, 762, 1210

  Crabs, 1374-77, 1604, 1606, 1621, 1622

  Crater, the Cup, 98

  Cretaceous period, 874

  Crinoids, 460, 471, 481, 1314-18

  Crocodiles, 1391-92, 1551, 1556

  Crown, the, 78

  Crustacea, 459, 460, 1374-78

  Crustaceans, 471

  Cryptogams, 454, 873, 887-90, 957-58, 960-61, 965, 1000, 1229-30

  Ctenoids, 483

  Cuckoo, 1605

  Cucumber, squirting, 1008-9

  Cuttle-fishes, 457, 459, 482

  Cuvier, 463, 1296, 1297, 1669, 1687

  Cycads, 455, 873, 874-76

  Cycloids, 483

  Cyclones, 792, 844

  Cygnus, 85, 123

  Cynosura, 77

  Cypress, 630, 1137

  Cypress-swamps, 630-31, 1137-38

  Cysat, 154


  D

  Dahna, the, 659

  Dante, 74, 99-100

  Darwin, Charles, 710-11, 751, 978, 1003, 1064, 1073, 1297, 1610,
        1664, 1665

  Darwin, Erasmus, 1205

  Darwin, Frank, 1015

  Darwin, G. H., 416

  Dead Sea, 586-87

  De Candolle. See _Candolle_

  De Dominis, 801

  Delile’s region, 940

  Deluge, the, 501-2
    the Asiatic, 493, 495, 500-2
    the European, 493, 495-99

  Deneb, 123, 127

  Denebola, 69, 116

  Descartes, 801, 802, 804, 806

  Deserts, 654-65, 947

  Devonian Period, 461-63

  Dew, 812-13

  Dew-point, 812

  Dicotyledons, 863

  Dictyogens, 1001

  Differentiation, 1293-94

  Diluvium, 494-95

  Dinornis, 1524

  Dinornus giganteus, 490

  Dinotherium, 491-93

  Diptera, 1418-19

  Dismal Swamp, the Great, 631, 1137

  Dodo, 1524, 1526

  Dog, the Great, 997, 125
    the Little, 98

  Dogs, 1574, 1611

  Doldrums, 786, 849

  Dolinas, 619-20

  Dolphin, 1561
    the, 78

  Dove, 786, 787

  Draconidæ, the, 1088-90

  Dragon, the, 78

  Dragon-fly, 1416-17, 1427, 1462-63
    eyes of, 1445-48

  Dragon-tree of Orotava, 933, 954

  Du Chaillu, 1627

  Dunes, 643-44, 656

  Dürer, Albert, 65

  D’Urville’s region, 941

  Dyer, Thiselton, 1122


  E

  Eagle, the, 85

  Eagles, 1538, 1556

  Earth, the, 326
    astronomical year of the, 369-73
    atmosphere of the, 773-84
    crust of the, 439-40, 450, 456, 571, 676-77, 871-72
    change of climate of, 502-5, 1127
    dimensions of the, 366
    distance from the sun, 368
    evolution of the, 666-70
    formation of the, 433-39
    moon’s influence on the, 720
    motions of the, 366-67
    as a planet, 364-76
    revolution of the, 368
    rotation of the, 368-69
    seasons of the, 372-74
    smell of the, 648-54
    vegetation, 946-56

  Earthquakes, 559-66

  Earwigs, 1403

  Echinodermata, 1313-14

  Echinoderms, 459, 460, 1319

  Edentata, 1519, 1536, 1555

  Eel, 1385

  Egypt, agriculture in, 1091-92
    dogs of, 1611

  Elephants, 1533, 1537-38, 1549

  Elger, 819

  Elk, 1553

  Elton Lake, 586

  Elves, 1204

  Emeu, 1524, 1526

  Emu, 1556, 1560

  Enaliosaurs, 487

  Encke, 298, 299, 418

  Endlicher, 877, 995

  Endogens, 455, 874, 1001

  Endomosis, 1294-95

  Eocene, 490-91, 1647, 1648

  Eocene animals, 1535

  Epiphytes, 862

  Equinoxes, precession of the, 373

  Equisetaceæ, 468-69, 472, 1110

  Eta, Argus, 57, 155, 212-13
    Cassiopeiæ, 198, 207
    Hercules, 315

  Etna, 525, 545, 548, 557

  Eucalyptus, 927-28, 955, 1139

  Eudoxus, 64

  Euler, 41

  Euphorbia, 1163, 1165

  Euphrates, the, 624

  Europe, fauna of, 1541-45
    vegetation of, 898-904

  Evaporation, 793-96

  Evergreens, 1125-30

  Existence, struggle for, 1464-82

  Exogens, 455, 1002

  Exosmosis, 1295


  F

  Fairy flies, 1449-58

  Fairy rings, 1204-8

  Fauna, marine, 1522

  Ferns, 455, 467-68, 470, 472, 473, 873, 887, 889-90, 929, 954-55,
        957-58, 967, 1230

  Ferrel, 792

  Fertilization, 1005-6, 1064-68, 1104, 1107, 1112-13, 1495-98
    cross, 897-98
    insect, 894-95, 897, 957
    wind, 898, 957, 1027-37

  Fig, 1169-70

  Fig-trees, 955

  Findley, A. G., 736

  Finns, 1672-74

  Fire-balls. See _Meteors_

  Fire-flies, 1557

  Fire-wells, 519

  Fishes, 460-61, 463, 470, 474, 482-86, 1337-56, 1544
    amphibious, 1351-53
    fins of, 1338, 1340-42
    gills of, 1338, 1344
    globe, 1355
    intelligence of, 1345-46
    mud, 1353-55
    nests of, 1350, 1629
    pipe, 1346, 1350
    protective color of, 1601
    scales of, 1338, 1339
    shooting, 1351
    senses of, 1344-45
    teeth of, 1342-43
    telescope, 1356
    the (constellation), 78
    trigger, 1355-56

  Flamingo, 1636

  Flamsteed, 65, 427

  Flies, 1444
    fairy, 1449-58

  Flögel, 818

  Flood. See _Deluge_

  Flora of the Alps, 513-15
    of Australia and Mesozoic compared, 886
    of carboniferous period, 468, 473, 873
    of New Zealand and Mesozoic compared, 886
    dawn of modern, 874
    fossil, 959-61
    Mesozoic, 871-77
    Permian, 472
    seashore, 1233-37

  Flower, the, 867

  Flowers, clock of, 1043
    colors of, 959, 1061-68, 1104
    diœcious, 870
    fertilization of, 871, 1027-37, 1064-68
    and insects, 894-95, 897, 957, 968, 1028-30, 1064-68, 1069-77,
        1112
    mimicry in, 1070
    monœcious, 870
    odors of, 1107-9
    queer, 1068-77
    sleep of, 1005

  Fly, house, 1525-27

  Fog, 823

  Fogs, red, 831

  Föhn, the, 831

  Fomalhaut, 57

  Foraminifera, 471, 1307

  Forbes, E., 1521

  Forest formations, 1135-46

  Försch, 1172

  Forskal’s region, 940

  Förster, 819

  Förster’s region, 940

  Fossil, definition of, 443

  Fox, 1542, 1567, 1576, 1579-81, 1616-17
    the Little, 78

  Frog, 1379-82

  Fruits, 898, 1002-16, 1104, 1647

  Fulton, T. W., 1106

  Fumaroles, 539

  Fungi, 454, 887, 889, 1189-1204, 1204-8
    colors of, 1193, 1197
    distribution of, 1201-4
    food of, 1191-92, 1206
    growth of, 1106-7, 1193-94
    odors of, 1106-7, 1196
    organs of, 1198-99
    shapes of, 1196-97
    spores of, 1199

  Fungus (giant puffball), 1194
    (Jews’ Ears), 1197
    (liver), 1196
    (stinkhorn), 1194
    (Tremella mesenterica), 1197


  G

  Gadidæ, 483

  Gaertner, 1003

  Galaxy. See _Milky Way_

  Galileo, 135, 154, 354-55, 377

  Galle, Dr., 806

  Gallflies, 1406, 1407

  Gamelin, 1266

  Ganges, the, 624, 625

  Ganoids, 483, 485-86

  Gasteropoda, 459

  Gauchos, 1579, 1581

  Gecko, 1392-93

  Gemini, 96, 122, 124

  Genera Plantarum, 995-96

  Generations, alternate, 964-65
    alternation of, 964-65

  Geological periods, 872-74, 1646
    duration of, 453-54
    table of, 452

  Geological vegetable kingdom, 454-56

  Geology, 439

  Georgians, 1671

  Georgium Sidus, 428

  Geysers, 520-22

  Giant Orion, the, 78, 96

  Gibbons, 1529, 1547

  Ginko-tree, 876, 884

  Giraffe, the (Camelopardus), 78
    the, 1532, 1549

  Glacial period, 496

  Glacier, of the Aar, 512-13
    of the Aletsch, 506, 513
    of the Grindelwald, 512

  Glaciers, 502-16
    of the Andes, 505
    of the Caucasus, 505, 506
    of Himalayas, 506
    of Norway and Sweden, 506
    of the Pyrenees, 505-6
    of the Rocky Mountains, 505
    of Switzerland, 506
    of the Tyrol, 506

  Glaisher, 776-77, 807

  Globes, celestial, 65

  Glucose, 969

  Gobi, Desert of, 661-62

  Goethe, 895, 998-99, 1002, 1294

  Goldschmidt, 400

  Gorilla, 1550

  Gould, Dr., 171, 188, 191

  Gourami, 1629

  Grallæ, 489

  Graminaceæ, 923-24, 954

  Grass, 1010, 1082-83, 1114, 1144-46

  Grasses, 938, 943-45, 954, 1031-32

  Grasshoppers, 1435

  Grass,” “Land of, 637

  Gray, Asa, 1483

  Grew, Nehemiah, 986, 988, 989

  Greyhounds, the, 78

  Grubb, Sir Howard, 251, 261

  Guinea-fowl, 1523, 1551

  Gulberg, 792

  Gulf Stream, 727-49, 1265-66

  Gulf-weed, 1264

  Gymnogens, 483, 1001

  Gymnosperms, 455, 873, 890-91, 958

  Gyracanthus, 485


  H

  Haeckel, Ernst, 982, 1299, 1305

  Hail, 809-11

  Hailstones, 110

  Hailstorm, noted, 811

  Haliday, 1450, 1451, 1452, 1453, 1456, 1457

  Hall, Asaph, 395

  Halley, 38, 63, 291, 816

  Halos, 826

  Hamster, 1619

  Hanno, 761

  Harmattan, 831

  Harriot, 320

  Harvey, Dr., 1250-51

  Hawkesbury, the, 624

  Heath, 950, 1142

  Heavens, the, 25
    the Arabian, 106-20

  Heis, 60, 61, 62, 66

  Helmholtz, 350

  Hen and Chickens, 77

  Hencke, 399, 400

  Henshaw, 988

  Henslow, 1113

  Herbert, W., 1466

  Herculaneum, 516-17

  Hercules, 78, 375

  Hermaphrodites, 1500

  Hermit Crab, 1330, 1606

  Heron, Sir R., 1492

  Herschel, Caroline, 164

  Herschel, Sir John, 136, 137, 146, 155-56, 157, 158, 160, 162-63,
        170, 171, 189, 191, 192, 207, 212, 241, 321, 384

  Herschel, Sir William, 59-60, 121, 136, 137, 162, 167, 168, 172,
        175, 200, 201, 202, 203, 204, 205, 207, 243, 319, 321, 426

  Hesiod, 76, 91

  Heteromorpha, 1405

  Heteroptera, 1419-21

  Hevel, 377

  Hevelius, 226, 353

  Hexactinellidæ, 1307-13

  Hierapolis, Baths of, 598

  Hildebrand, 1003, 1014

  Hind, 128, 190, 400

  Hindoos, 1672

  Hipparchus, 60, 221

  Hipparion, 1298

  Hippopotamus, 1532, 1549-50

  Hoar-frost, 812

  Hofmeister, 1053

  Holden, Prof., 161, 163

  Holoptychius, 470, 474

  Holothuria, 1365

  Holtenia carpenteri, 1307-9

  Home, Sir Everard, 1387, 1388, 1393

  Homer, 72, 75, 76, 297, 359, 761

  Homomorpha, 1405

  Homomorphism, 1099-1114

  Honey-suckers, 1559-60

  Hooke, 988

  Hooker, Dr., 926, 1214, 1483

  Horse, 1532

  Horsetails, 887

  Hottentots, 1675

  Houzeau, 61, 62, 66, 67, 126

  Howard, Luke, 821

  Hudson, W. H., 1605

  Huggins, Dr., 161, 163, 183

  Humboldt, A. von, 33, 54, 58, 148, 224-26, 750, 759-60, 776, 906,
        920-21, 1143, 1161, 1170, 1180, 1214, 1265

  Humboldt’s region, 941

  Humming-birds, 1557, 1628-29

  Hurricanes, 844

  Huxley, 753, 979, 1306, 1500, 1583

  Huygens, 154

  Hyades, 66, 75, 124, 127, 152-53

  Hya-hya-tree, 1167

  Hydra, 1328-29
    (constellation), 98

  Hydrozoa, 1325-27

  Hyenas, 1546, 1548-49

  Hymenium, 1199, 1200

  Hymenoptera, 1406, 1449-58, 1634


  I

  Ice, 507
    age, 1128

  Ichneumons, 1406, 1408

  Ichthyosauri, 673-74

  Iliad, quotation from the, 75

  Incidence, angle of, 800

  India rubber, 1163, 1166

  Indian, the (constellation), 78
    figs, 1180, 1181, 1184-85

  Infusoria, 1290

  Insects, 1401-64, 1545, 1552, 1557, 1576, 1577-78, 1620, 1623-24,
        1634, 1635
    eggs of, 1401
    eyes of, 1445-48
    and flowers, 894-95, 897, 957, 968, 1028-30, 1064-68, 1069-77,
        1112, 1495
    fossil, 1421-22
    imago of, 1401, 1461
    larva of, 1401, 1458-59
    mimicry in, 1595, 1600
    orders of, 1402-5
    parasitic, 1403, 1407, 1408, 1411, 1419, 1449-58
    pupa of, 1401, 1460
    scales of, 1431-34
    “sembling” of, 1443-44
    senses of, 1439-48
    sounds of, 1434-36
    stings of, 1436-39
    transformations, 1401-2, 1405-6, 1458-64
    type of, 1423
    types of, 1423, 1424-25
    wings of, 1428-34

  Irrawadi, the, 624

  Isobars, 788, 789-90

  Isothermals, 786


  J

  Jackal, 1546

  Jack-on-the-Middle-Horse, 126

  Jacob’s staff, 77

  Jacquart, Dr., 1694

  Jacquin’s region, 941

  Jaguar, 1553

  Jaxartes, the, 627, 640

  Jeffreys, Gwyn, 1309, 1312

  Jelly-fish, 962, 1325-29

  Job, 75, 119

  Jorullo, 561

  Josephus, 76

  Judd, Prof., 528

  Jungfrau, the, 512, 513

  Jungles, 1140

  Jupiter, 32, 131, 312, 313, 317, 326, 331, 340, 403-15
    atmosphere of, 411
    brightness of, 404-5
    density of, 403-4
    orbit of, 404
    red spot on, 408-9
    rotation of, 403
    satellites of, 411-15
    spectrum of, 416
    spots on, 407-8
    volume of, 403

  Jussieu, B. de, 993-94

  Jussieu, L. de, 995


  K

  Kaemtz, 787

  Kakapo, 1608

  Kampfer’s region, 940

  Kangaroo, 965, 1558

  Kangaroo-rat, 1558

  Kazwini, 106, 115, 118, 119

  Keeler, 155, 255, 406, 407, 422

  Kepler, 226, 368, 396, 799-800

  Kerner, 1003

  Kilauea, 544, 545, 557

  Kirby and Spence, 1401

  Kirchhoff, 337-38, 340, 342

  Kluge, 544

  Knight, Andrew, 1058

  Koch, Dr. R., 1133

  Krakatoa, eruption of, 527-36

  Krates, 64

  Krause, 1003


  L

  Lacépède, 1687

  Lago Maggiore, 573

  Lagoons. See _Atolls_

  Lake, Big Soda, 581
    Drummond, 631
    dwellers, 1093-94
    of Geneva, 574, 575, 576
    Great Salt, of Utah, 579-81, 587
    Superior, 573, 576
    Tchad, 628

  Lakes, 573-88, 620-21, 628

  Lalande, 431

  Land, distribution of, 676-79

  “Land of Grass,” the, 638

  Landes, Les, 644-45

  Laplace, 310, 433, 434, 787

  Laplanders, 1672

  Lassell, 430, 432

  Latreille, 1403, 1414, 1415

  Lava, 540-41, 552, 554-59

  Laval, Pyrard de, 690

  Leaf, 863-64, 1222

  Leaves, 863, 972-75, 1016-27, 1042-44, 1221
    falling, 1126
    foliage, 865-66

  Le Monnier, 427

  Lemurs, 1529

  Leo, sickle in, 125, 127

  Leonids, 278-81

  Lepidodendra, 468, 960-61, 1230

  Lepidoptera, 1421

  Lepidosirens, 1345, 1353-55

  Le Roi, 813

  Lespès, M., 1410, 1411

  Leuckart, 1419

  Leverrier, 303, 348, 431

  Ley, Clement, 821, 823

  Lianes, 924-25, 928, 953

  Libra, 78

  Lichens, 454, 887, 889, 930, 946, 1208-19
    Alpine, 1214-15
    distribution of, 1213-14
    organs of, 1212
    reindeer, 931
    rock hair, 1216-17
    Tripe de Roche, 1219
    written, 1211
    Umbelicarus, Higinis, 514
    Usnea florida, 1217-18

  Life, omnipresence of, 1285-95

  Light, 44, 51-2, 802

  Ligule, 864

  Liliaceous plants, 955

  Lilies, 1084-87

  Lindley, 995, 1060
    classification of, 1000-2

  Linnæan region, 939

  Linnæus, 990, 1043, 1216, 1266, 1296, 1403, 1466

  Lion, 1546, 1548
    the (constellation), 78

  Lister, Sir Joseph, 1134

  Liverworts, 455, 887

  Lizards, 1390-91, 1544, 1551

  Llama, 1554

  Llanos, the, 646, 918, 1143

  Lobster, 1377-78

  Lockyer, 342, 345, 346

  Loess, 499

  Lowell, Percival, 388-89, 390

  Lowlands, 634-48

  Lubbock, Sir J., 1457, 1656, 1657, 1661

  Lucifer, 359

  Lycopodiaceæ, 455, 470, 472

  Lycopods, 468, 961-63, 1229-30

  Lyell, Sir Charles, 627, 1466

  Lynx, the, 78

  Lyre, the, 85


  M

  Macaques, 1529

  Macassar-poison tree, 1172

  Mackerel skies, 823-24

  Macrospores, 962, 965-66, 1365-67

  Magellan, 1098

  Magellanic clouds, 147-48, 167

  Magnol, 992-94

  Magnolias, 906, 916

  Magpies, 1630

  Maguey-plants, 1140

  Magyars, 1672, 1674

  Maize, 944

  Malays, 1676-77

  Malpighi, 988

  Malvaceæ, 950

  Mamillaria, 1182, 1187

  Mammals, herbivorous, 886

  Mammalia, 1513-20, 1535, 1552
    protective colors, 1598-1600

  Mammoth Cave, 615

  Man, 1518, 1679
    birthplace of, 1654, 1682
    brain of, 1689
    cranium of, 1692
    definition of, 1679
    facial angle of, 1692-94
    first appearance of, 1647-56
    hand of, 1691
    migration of, 1680-86
    primitive, 1656-67
    senses of, 1690-92

  Manchineel, the, 1164-65

  Mandioc, 1164

  Manioc, 945

  Mankind, distribution of, 1667-68
    ethnological division of, 1669-71
    races of, 1667-78, 1682, 1685-89

  Marco Polo, 986

  Mare’s tails. See _Equisetaceæ_

  Mariotte, 804

  Marmosets, 1555

  Marmots, 1615

  Mars, 131, 312, 313, 331, 340, 385-96
    atmosphere of, 393-94
    canals on, 388-91
    climate of, 394
    diameter of, 385
    “Eye of,” 388
    Hour Glass Sea, 392
    lakes of, 388
    moons of, 395
    rotation of, 386
    seasons of, 386
    spectrum of, 392

  Marshes, 628-34

  Marsupialia, 1534-35, 1536

  Marsupials, 1539, 1558

  Martins, Ch., 814-16

  Martius, 899-902, 921, 1165

  Martius’s region, 941

  Maskelyne, 426

  Mastodon, the, 492-93, 1533

  Ma-tuan-lin, annals of (Chinese), 221, 222, 226

  Mauna Loa, 557

  Maury, 301, 730, 840, 842, 1266

  Maxwell, Clerk, 419

  Mayflies, 1415-16

  Medusa, Head of, 85

  Medusæ, the, 962.
    See _Jelly-fish_

  Megalichthys, 470, 474

  Megalonyx, 1533

  Megatherium, 1533

  Melocactus, 1182, 1187

  Mercury, 130-31, 311, 326, 331, 348, 353-58
    atmosphere of, 354
    diameter of, 354
    elongations of, 354
    orbit of, 353-54
    phases of, 354-55
    revolution of, 353-54
    and Venus, 355

  Mer de Glace, 512-13

  Mesozoic, flora, 871-77
    Ocean, 672-74

  Messier, 35, 130, 426
    the “Comet Ferret,” 426

  Messophyll, 864

  Metamorphosis of insects, 1461

  Metazoa, 1299

  Meteorology, science of, 786, 788, 791, 991

  Meteors, 266-82

  Mexican hand-tree, 950

  Mexico, agriculture in, 1094

  Meyer, Hans, 1598

  Miasma, 634

  Michaux’s region, 940

  Microspores, 961-62

  Mildew, 1200

  Milk-tree, 1167, 1170

  Milky Way, the, 27-28, 50, 60, 70, 76, 85, 128, 129, 133-46

  Miller, Prof., 806

  Millet, 945

  Milne-Edwards, 757

  Mimicry, 1593-1601
    in fungi, 1197
    in plants, 1070, 1099-1114

  Mimosa form, 950

  Miocene, 1647, 1649
    animals of, 1532, 1535
    Tertiary, 491-93

  Mira Ceti, 99, 128, 194, 210

  Mirage, 638-39, 661, 947

  Mirfak, 134

  Mississippi, the, 624, 626

  Mistral, 831

  Mitchell Miss, 286

  Mitchell, Sir Thomas, 927

  Mizar, 81, 126, 127, 196-97

  Moa, 1561

  Moffette, 518

  Moggridge, 1612

  Mohl, 1052, 1060

  Mohn, 792

  Mollusca, 470, 481, 1302, 1320, 1602

  Mollusks, 459, 460

  Monera, 1305

  Mongolians, 1673-74

  Monkeys, 1529-31, 1555
    fossil, 1529

  Monocotyledons, 862

  Monsoons, 836-41, 849-50

  Montanari, 68

  Mont Blanc, 512

  Moon, the, 376-85
    brightness of the, 384-85
    diameter of the, 35
    geography of the, 378-85
    influence upon the earth, 720
    Maria of the, 379-81
    mountains of the, 382-84

  Moons. See _Satellites_

  Moss, Iceland, 931, 1218
    Irish, 1257
    Spanish, 1229

  Mosses, 455, 887, 889, 930, 1220-30
    club, 961-63, 1229-30
    distribution of, 1223-26
    leaves of, 1221
    organs of, 1221-22
    scale, 1226-29
    urn, 1226

  Moth, Death’s Head, 1572

  Moths, wings of, 1431-33

  Mould, 1201

  Mountains, 566-72

  Mouse, dwarf, 1633

  Mu Cephei, 188

  Mud-lava, 516

  Mud-lumps, 610-11

  Mud-volcanoes, 519-20, 522-25

  Müller, H., 1102

  Müller, 1003

  Munro, Gen., 1117, 1119, 1122

  Mushrooms, 1200, 1207-8
    French, 1207
    St. Georges, 1207-8
    spawn of, 1198

  Muskrats, 1638

  Mussels, 459, 460

  Mycelium, 1198


  N

  Napoleon, 787

  Natural selection, 1122, 1130, 1482-1512

  Nebula, definition of, 180-82
    great, in Andromeda, 129
    in Andromeda (31 Messier), 163-66, 176
    in Argo, 155-57
    “30 Doradus,” 157
    The Dumb-bell, 158
    The Keyhole, 155-57
    “57 Messier,” 159
    “99 Messier,” 161, 167
    great, of Orion, 129, 154-55, 176-87
    “the trifid” (20 Messier), 157-58

  Nebulæ, the, 28-29
    “annular,” 159-60
    elliptical, 163
    planetary, 161-63
    “Queen of the,” 129
    spiral, 166-67

  Nebular hypothesis, 310, 433

  Nefouds, the, 659-60

  Negro, the, 1674-76

  Neptune, 41, 312, 313, 317, 332, 430-32
    diameter of, 431
    distance from the sun, 431
    revolution of, 431
    satellite of, 432

  Nemertes worm, 1371-73

  Nettle-plants, 1168-71

  Nettles and serpents, 1170-72

  Neuroptera, 1413-17

  Névé, region of the, 515

  Newton, 242, 289, 803, 804, 805

  New Zealand, birds of, 1524-25
    fauna of, 1561
    savages, 1673, 1677
    vegetation in, 929-30

  Nichol, Prof., 143, 146

  Nile, the, 623, 624, 625

  Northern Crown, the, 86, 123

  North Pole, 88

  Nubecula, major, 139, 147-48
    minor, 139, 147-48

  Nuts, 1174-80


  O

  Oak, 931

  Oak-egger moth, 1441-43

  Occultations, 131-32

  Ocean, floor of the, 676-89
    luminosity of the, 759-63
    Mesozoic, 672-74
    Palæozoic, 670-71
    phosphorescence of the, 1320-24
    primitive, 666
    of the Tertiary Period, 674-75

  Oil-wells, 519

  Old Red Sandstone, 481, 482, 483, 484, 486

  Omega in Centaur, 180

  Onychoteuthis, 673

  Oolite, animals, 1535
    reptiles, 487-88

  Opalina, 1290, 1294

  Ophiocephalidæ, 1352-53

  Opossums, 1534, 1541, 1554, 1579-80, 1648

  Opuntias, 1184-85, 1188

  Orang-outangs, 1529, 1530, 1547, 1550, 1626

  Orchids, 951, 956, 1101-2, 1113, 1154-55

  Organ, 1292

  Orinoco, the, 623

  Orion, 97, 124, 177
    belt of, 124
    great nebula of, 29, 97, 125, 129, 154-55, 176-87
    sword of, 124

  Orycteropus, 1571

  Ornithorynchus, 1558-59

  Orthoceratites, 672

  Orthoptera, 1413

  Ostrich, 1523-24, 1526, 1550

  Oven-bird, 1637-38

  Ovid, 64

  Owen, 1297

  Owl, horned, 1607

  Oysters, 459


  P

  Pachydermata, 1536, 1549
    extinct, 491-93

  Paget, Sir James, 978

  Palæontology, 1529, 1532
    founder of, 463

  Palæotheres, 490-91

  Palæozoic, fauna, 872
    flora, 872, 874
    ocean, 670-71

  Paley, 1293

  Paliser, 400

  Palm, date, 911
    groves, 1140
    oil, 912

  Palmetto fields, 1140

  Palms, 938, 949-50

  Pampas, 647-48, 663-64, 1141, 1145

  Pampero, 850-52

  Papuans, 1676-77

  Paradise-fish, 1603

  Partridge, 1581

  Passifloras, 953, 956

  Pea-crab, 1604

  Peach, the, 1095

  Peacock, 1547

  Peat bogs, 631-34

  Peat-mosses, 631-34

  Peccary, 1553

  Peduncle, the, 867

  Pegasus, 78
    square of, 84, 123

  Permian period, 465, 872, 873

  Péron, 755-57

  Perseus, 78, 84
    new star in, 228-38

  Persians, 1672

  Peru, agriculture in, 1094

  Petals, 868, 1002, 1032

  Petermann, Dr., 738

  Phænogams, 454, 455, 456

  Phanerogams, 887, 890-92, 957-58, 966, 1001

  Pheasants, 1547

  Pholades, 757

  Phosphorescence of fungi, 1192-93
    of ocean, 750-63, 1320-24

  Phyllode, 864

  Phyllotaxis, 1017

  Piazzi, 396-98

  Pickering, W. H., 155

  Pictet, 813

  Pileus, 1199

  Pines, 455, 873, 876, 885-86, 931

  Pine-woods, 1136

  Piscis Australis, 98

  Pistil, 869, 1003

  Pitcher-plants, 1074-75

  Placoids, 482

  Planetoids, the, 396-403

  Planets, the, 30, 31, 55, 310-16

  Planisphere, Græco-Egyptian, 64

  Plants, and animals, 976-77, 979-84, 1478
    cilia of, 1010
    classification of, 984-1002
    climbing, 1045-61
    color development in, 896
    cultivation of, 1091-99
    dew, 1083
    distribution of, 936-45
    fertilization of, 892-98, 1005-16
    flowering and flowerless, 963-65
    food, 941-45, 1026
    forms of, 948-55
    fossil, 958
    growth of, 1122
    insect-fertilized, 894-95
    insectivorous, 1068-77, 1103
    “irritability” of, 977-78, 1040,
    leguminous, 1080
    milk-sap, 1161-74
    mimicry of, 1099-1114, 1598
    movement in, 1045-61
    movements of, 1005-16, 1037-44, 1122-25
    oldest, 455, 1230
    organs of, 968
    radiation of, 1042-43
    sleep of, 978, 1038, 1042
    social, 956
    and soil, 934-36, 969-72
    wind-fertilized, 894

  Planula, 1328

  Plastron, 1394

  Platypus, 1558-59

  Plateaus, submarine, 683

  Pleiades, the, 75, 77, 85, 94, 123-24, 151-52, 167

  Pleistocene, 1647, 1649
    animals, 1533

  Plesiosaurus, 674

  Pleuracanthus, 485

  Pleuronectidæ, 483

  Pliny, 60, 221, 757, 761, 986

  Pliocene, 1522, 1647, 1649
    animals, 1532, 1533

  Plow, the, 122

  Plowright, Dr., 1101, 1106

  Plumularia, 1333-35

  Plutarch, 376

  Poik, the, 617-20

  Poison-trees, 1165

  Pole Star, 68, 82-83, 87, 122, 197

  Pollen, 868, 1002, 1028-29

  Pollux, 57, 98, 122, 315

  Polynesia, fauna of, 1560-61
    races of, 1666, 1676-77

  Polypes, 1328-31
    bell, 1335-36
    coral, 459
    garland, 1331-35

  Polyzoa, 471

  Pomegranate, 1095

  Porcupine, the, 747

  Porpoise, 1561

  Potato, 942, 945
    sweet, 929

  Pothos, 952, 955

  Pouchet, George, 1681

  Poultry, domestic, 1547

  Poussinière, the, 75

  Prairies, the, 645, 1142

  Prawn, 1377

  Prehistoric period, 1647

  Priestley, 1205

  Pritchard, Dr., 1688, 1689

  Probabilities, science of, 786

  Proctor, 66

  Procyon, 57, 63, 76, 98

  Prœsepe, 66, 130, 153

  Prophet-plant, 1061-68

  Protein, 980

  Prothallus, 962

  Protogens, 456

  Protoplasm, 980, 1039

  Protozoa, 1299, 1304-5

  Psammodus, 470

  Pterichthys, 483, 484, 671

  Pterodactyles, 487

  Ptolemy, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68

  Puma, 1553

  Pursch’s region, 940

  Pygopterus, 474

  Pyrosoma, the, 755

  Python, 1548, 1551, 1567


  Q

  Quadrumana, 1518, 1529-31, 1536, 1548, 1550

  Quagga, 1541, 1550

  Quaking-bogs, 631

  Quaternary period, 494, 495, 1679-80


  R

  Radiata, 1303-4

  Radiates, 459, 460

  Radiation, 812

  Rafflesia, Arnoldi, 956, 1068-71, 1173

  Raffles, Sir Stamford, 1068

  Rain, 792-98
    colored, 797
    cyclonic, 849
    non-isobaric, 849
    tropical, 849

  Rainbow, the, 799-807
    white, 806-7

  Raindrops, 792-98

  Rain-gauge, 792-93

  Rake, the, 77

  Ramsay, Sir Andrew C., 573

  Rattlesnake, 1385

  Raven, 1578-79

  Ray, John, 989-90

  Razor-fish, 1358

  Red River, the, 624

  Red Sandstones, 872, 873

  Red Sandstone of Connecticut, 489-90

  Reefs, barrier, 689, 693-96, 699-707
    coral, 689-707
    fringing, 689, 696-98

  Refraction, law of, 800

  Regulus, 57, 123, 125

  Reindeer, 1538

  Reinwardt’s region, 940

  Reproduction, 966

  Reptiles, 486-88, 1379-1401, 1548, 1551, 1557, 1610
    extinct, 673-74
    herbivorous, 886
    mimicry in, 1597

  Rhea, 1524, 1527, 1528

  Rhinoceros, 1549

  Rhizocarp, 455

  Rhizocarpeæ, 455

  Rhizodus, 485

  Rhizogens, 1001

  Rhizopods, 1305

  Rhodius anarus, 1606

  Rhone, the, 626

  Rice, 944, 1114

  Rigel, 57, 63, 96, 108, 124, 187, 188

  River-basins, 636-37

  River-drift man, 1649-56

  Rivers, 621-27, 629

  Roberts, Dr. Isaac, 158-59, 159-60, 164-65, 166-67, 245, 264

  Rock, beds of, 450-52
    definition of, 440

  Rocks, 440-50
    absorption of moisture by, 590-92
    erratic, 496-97

  Rodentia, 1519, 1536, 1550

  Rooks, 1572

  Roots, 861-63

  Ross, Sir James, 688

  Rosse, Lord, 154, 161, 166, 276

  Rousseau, J. J., 1694

  Roxburgh’s region, 940

  Ruiz and Pavon’s region, 941

  Ruminantia, 1531-36

  Ruskin, 1019

  Rust, 1200

  Rye, 944


  S

  Sagitta, 77

  Sahara, the, 654-59

  Sahel, the, 655-56

  Saint-Hilaire, Auguste de, 921, 922-23, 925

  Saint-Hilaire’s region, 941

  Saint Lawrence, the, 624

  Saint Pierre, B. de, 1182

  Saint Vincent, Bory de, 1688

  Salamander, 1383

  Salisburia, 876

  Salmon, 1545

  Salmonidæ, 483

  Samoiedes, 1672, 1674

  San Francisco, the, 625

  Sargasso Sea, the, 1263-67

  Satellites, 30, 411-15, 420-26, 429-30, 432
    Jupiter’s, 411-15

  Saturn, 312, 313, 317, 326, 331, 415-26
    diameter of, 415
    and Jupiter, 416, 417
    moons of, 420-26
    orbit of, 415
    rings of, 417-20
    rotation of, 415
    seasons of, 415
    spectrum of, 416

  Saurians, 1390-94

  Savages, 1657-66, 1673

  Savannas, 646

  Savary, 201

  Savigny, 1422

  Scales, of fishes, 1338-40
    of insects, 1431-34

  Schiaparelli, 356-57, 388, 394

  Schickard, 119

  Schiller, Jules, 105

  Schmidt, 818

  Schöpf, 712-13

  Schwabe, Herr, 324, 326-27

  Scoresby, 807

  Scott, Walter, 763, 1022

  Sculptor’s Workshop, the, 78

  Sea, color of the, 709-13
    depths of the, 680-89
    distribution of the, 677-79
    fauna of deep, 1304
    flora of the, 1233-37
    magnitude of the, 707
    phosphorescence of the, 750-63
    shore, the, 763-72, 1232-33
    temperature of the deep, 739-40
    water, organic life in, 1261
    wonders of the, 1357-74

  Sea-dust, 831-32
    -horses, 1346-50
    -pens, 754-55
    -slugs, 1369-70
    -urchins, 459, 1361-62

  Sea of Aral, 582

  Seals, 582

  Sea-weed, Irish moss, 1257
    Sargassum, 1263-68

  Sea-weeds, 454, 1230, 1237-62
    colors of, 1262
    dulse, 1250
    food of, 1261-62
    fucus, 1239
    laver, 1251
    organs of, 1262
    parasitic, 1246
    spores of, 1262
    Ulvæ, 1240
    wracks, 1239

  Seed, ejection of, 1007-16, 1199-1200, 1212

  Seeds, 1002-16, 1104-5

  Seiches, 574

  Selenography, 376

  Selvas, 647

  Seneca, 284

  Sensitive-plants, 1039, 1040

  Sepals, 867-68

  Septentriones, 82

  Sequoia, 876-84

  Serpent, the, 78

  Serpents, 488, 1383-90, 1551, 1557

  Sertularia, 1330

  Sexual selection, 1491

  Shagreen, 1339

  Shakespeare, 1204

  Shark, 1538, 1544

  Shield of Sobieski, 78, 96

  Shooting-fishes, 1351

  Shooting-stars, 132

  Sidereal universe, 30

  Sidereus Nuncius, 377

  Sigillaria, 464, 470, 476, 1230

  Sigillariæ, 470

  Silkworm, 1545

  Silurian beach, 456-63

  Silurian period, 461-63
    fauna of the, 481

  Simoon, 830

  Sirius, 54, 56, 57, 63, 66, 75, 96, 97, 125, 187, 193, 203, 308

  Sirocco, 830-31

  Smith, Sir J. E., 998

  Smith, Worthington, 1598

  Smut, 1200

  Snell, Willebrod, 800, 801

  Snow, 807-9
    red, of Alps, 514-15
    crystals, 807-8
    flakes, 808-9

  Social plants, 1226

  Soffioni, 518

  Soil, absorption of moisture by, 588-90
    and plants, 934-36, 969-72

  Solar, corona, 342
    spectrum, 337, 346
    system, 30, 71-72

  Solfatara, 518, 539

  Somma, 542-43

  Sorcerer’s Spring, the, 592

  Southern Cross, the, 78, 99, 125

  Space, 32, 33-42

  Species, 984

  Spectroscope, 333

  Spencer, Herbert, 1466

  Spermaceti, 1563

  Sphagnum, 632, 633

  Sphere, invention of the, 64

  Spica, 57, 63, 66, 209

  Spiders, 1578, 1600-1, 1612-14, 1634

  Spines, 867

  Spinneret, 1460

  Sponges, 1305, 1307-13

  Spores, fungi, 1199
    lichens, 1212
    of sea-weed, 1262

  Sprengel, 1003

  Springs, 592-604
    mineral, 602-3
    salt, 599-601
    thermal, 594-99

  Sprung, 792

  Spurge, family of, 1163
    phosphorescent, 1166

  Squalls, 845-47

  Squirrels, 1624-25

  Stamens, 868, 1002

  Staphilinus Cæsareus, 1568

  Star, “the Blaze,” 277
    the brightest, 54, 63
    the “Demon,” 216-20
    the dog, 97
    “garnet” (Mu Cephei), 188
    “The Lost,” 115
    nearest to earth, 41, 99
    “Nova” [P (34) Cygni], 226
    Nova Persei, 228-38
    “The Pilgrim,” 223
    the Pole, 68, 82-83, 87, 122, 197
    “The Test,” 81, 115
    Tycho Brahe’s, 223, 224-26
    “the wonderful.” See Mira Ceti

  Star-clusters, 29, 49, 50, 66, 160, 167, 167-75, 192

  Star-fishes, 450
    -groups, 151-53
    -streams, 133-40

  Stars, the, 25, 43, 51-60, 307-9
    Arabic, names of, 106-20
    atlases of, 65-66
    binary, 200-10
    blue, 192
    brightness of the, 56, 68-69
    catalogue of, 58, 60, 61, 62
    colored, 187-95
    distances of the, 36, 46, 51-52
    double, 67, 125, 192, 195-200
    double (naked eye), 126-27
    fixed, 30-31, 55, 60
    fortunate, 116
    green, 191-92
    inhabited, 307-10
    lucid, 60
    magnitudes of, 56-58, 62-63
    maps of, 65-66
    movements of, 33
    multiple, 195
    nebulous, 163
    number of, 58-60, 60-61, 120-21
    of solar type, 315
    quadruple, 195
    red, 188-91, 193-95
    scintillation of, 53-54
    shadows of, 66
    shooting, 132
    spectra of, 308
    temporary, 128, 220-27
    triple, 195, 203-4
    variable, 127-28, 194, 209-20
    wandering, 31, 55
    white, 193, 195
    yellow, 193

  Steinbrinck, 1003

  Stem, 862

  Steppes, the, 582, 637-43, 661, 947, 1143-46

  Sticklebacks, 1350, 1629

  Stigma, 870

  Stigmaria, 464, 476

  Stigmariæ, 470

  Stipa pennata, 1015-16, 1144

  Stipules, 864

  Stomata, 1022

  Storms, rotary, 844-45
    thunder, 847-48

  Strabo, 64, 598

  Stratum, 440

  Streams, subterranean, 604-10

  Stromboli, 544-45

  Strommung, 1543

  Struve, 59, 201, 430

  Sun, the, 316-52
    density of the, 316
    diameter of the, 36
    gravity of the, 317
    mass of the, 316
    spots, 318-25, 544, 817
    a star of the Milky Way, 28
    a variable star, 327
    volume of the, 316

  Sun-birds, 1551

  Sun-dew, the, 1073-74

  Suns, numberless, 28, 29, 48-49

  Survival of the fittest, 1466, 1484

  Swallow, 1636

  Swamps, 628-34, 1137-38

  Swan, the, 78, 123

  Swartz’s region, 941

  Swinburne, 1073

  Swine, 1532

  Synapta Digitata, 1362-63


  T

  Tadpole, 1379-82

  Tailor-bird, 1633

  Tangles, 1231, 1248-49

  Tapir, 1553, 1554

  Taurus, 123-24

  Taxonomy, 1298

  Tebbad, 830

  Tef, 945

  Telegraph-plant, 1041, 1044

  Telescope, the, 49, 333-37
    the Cassegrain, 243-44
    equatorial, 249-53, 258-61
    eye-pieces, 245-47
    Lick, 256
    reflecting, 241
    refracting, 238
    Lord Rosse’s, 253
    Yerkes, 255

  Telescopes, great, 253-61
    photographic, 262-66

  Tendrils, 867, 1049-60, 1124-25

  Termites, 1414, 1552

  Tertiary period, 493, 674-75
    animals, 1532

  Thallogens, 454, 482, 1000

  Thallophytes, 958

  Thallus, 1000

  Theodorus, 64

  Thistles, 1145-46, 1181, 1183

  Three Kings, the, 77, 97

  Thunberg’s region, 941

  Thunderstorms, 847-48

  Tidal-action, 713-27

  Tides, 713-27

  Tierra del Fuegians, 1664-66, 1678

  Tigris, the, 624

  Titmouse, 1630

  Titus, law of, 397

  Toad, 1382-83

  Toadstool, 1200

  Tocusso, 945

  Torch-thistles, 1181, 1183

  Tornado, 844, 852-58

  Tortoise, 1394-98, 1399-1401

  Tortoise-shell, 1397

  Toucans, 1556

  Tournefort, 986-90

  Toxotes jaculator, 1576

  Trade-winds, 659, 663, 834-36, 841-42

  Tree-frog, 1383
    -palms, 885
    -worship, 1078

  Trees, 1030-31
    Australian, 1139
    California big, 876-84
    deciduous, 1129
    nut, 1174-80
    poison, 1165, 1167-68, 1172, 1174

  Tremendal, 631

  Triangle, the, 78

  Trias, 872

  Trichoptera, 1417-18

  Trilobites, 457, 460, 471, 481, 671

  Tritons, 1383

  Truffle, 1201

  Trumpet-tree, 1165

  Tschudi, Jacbon, 877

  Tundras, 582, 637

  Turkeys, 1523, 1556

  Turks, 1672, 1674

  Turtle, 1398-1401

  Twins, the, 78, 98

  Tycho Brahe, 69, 303, 353

  Tycho Brahe’s star, 223-26

  Typhoons, 845


  U

  Ulloa, Don Antonio de, 807

  Ulug Bekh, 67, 115, 118

  Ungulata, 1536

  Univalves, 459

  Universe, the, 25-33, 51

  Upas-tree, 1172, 1174

  Uranography, Chinese, 76

  Uranometria, Argentina, 66, 70
    (Bayer’s), 64

  Uranoscopus, 1569

  Uranus, 131, 312, 313, 317, 332, 426-30
    diameter of, 428
    revolution of, 428
    satellites of, 429-30

  Urus, 1543

  Utah, Great Salt Lake of, 579-81, 587
    desert of, 662


  V

  Vallisneria spiralis, 893, 1006

  Vanilla, 955, 1152

  Van Tieghem, 967

  Vaucher, 1015

  Vaucluse, the Gorges of, 604-5

  Vedas, the, 501

  Vega, 51-52, 57, 63, 76, 85, 87, 123, 187, 193

  Vegetable-ivory, 1179

  Vegetation, in Africa, 909-15
    in America, 915-26
    in Asia, 905-9
    in Australia, 926-29
    in Canary Isles, 932-34
    of the earth, 946-56
    in Europe, 898-904
    in New Zealand, 939-30
    zones of, 930-45

  Venus, 131, 312, 317, 326, 331, 358-64
    atmosphere of, 361
    and Mercury, 355
    climate of, 361
    geography of, 362
    orbit of, 360
    phases of, 359-60
    revolution of, 360
    year of, 361

  Venus’s Fly-trap, 1076-77

  Vertebrata, 1301, 1337

  Vertebrates, 460-61

  Vesper, 359

  Vesuvius, 525, 543, 545, 546, 548-49, 551, 556, 557

  Via Lactea, 27

  Virey, 1687

  Vitellio, 799

  Vitruvius, 598

  Vizcacha, 1617-19

  Volcanic, action, 516-27, 541-42
    tuff, 445

  Volcano, 545
    definition of, 537-38

  Volcanoes, 525-27, 536-59, 562, 570
    eruptions of, 517
    gaseous emanations, 518-19, 538-39
    mud, 519-20, 522-25

  Volga, the, 627, 637

  Vulcan, 353

  Vulpecula, 78

  Vulture, 1551


  W

  Wahlenberg’s region, 930, 939, 1143

  Walker, Francis, 1452

  Wallace, A. R., 1003, 1100-1, 1127, 1115, 1116, 1117, 1297, 1591,
        1594, 1595, 1596, 1597

  Wallich’s region, 940

  Wasps, 1408, 1409, 1634

  Water-bearer, the, 78

  Waterspouts, 845

  Weak, J. P. Mansel, 1101, 1598

  Weather, 784
    prognostics, 784-85, 827-28
    charts of the, 786, 788, 827

  Weaver-birds, 1631-33

  Wells, Dr. William Charles, 813

  Westwood, 1402, 1403, 1404, 1405

  Whale, 1561
    the, 98-99

  Whately, 1658, 1661

  Wheat, 944, 945

  Whirlwind, 849, 852-53

  Whitney, Prof., 878

  Whorl, 866

  Wildcat, 1542

  Williams, Stanley, 409-10

  Wilson, Alexander, 813

  Winds, 828-45
    trade, 834-36, 841-42

  Wings of insects, 1428-34

  Winlock, Prof., 818

  Withering, 998

  Wolf, Max, 155, 263

  Wollaston, 54

  Wolves, 1574-75

  Woods, Brazilian, 1146-61

  Worms, 459-60, 1619

  Wren, Sir Christopher, 792-93


  X

  Xylocopa, 1620


  Y

  Yellowstone National Park, 520

  Young, Thomas, 806-7

  Yucca, 954, 1164


  Z

  Zebra, 1541, 1550

  Zodiac, the, 88-95
    Arabic, 92
    Chinese, 93-94
    of Denderah, 90
    of the Elephanta Pagoda, 91
    of Esne, 91
    Hindoo, 93

  Zodiacal light, 132, 149-51, 351, 352
    spectrum of, 346

  Zone, of calms, 833-34
    the coralline, 1230
    the laminarian, 1230, 1231
    the littoral, 1230

  Zones, bathymetrical, 1521-22

  Zoophytes, 470, 481

  Zoospores, 1039

  Zosteraceæ, 482



FOOTNOTES:

[1] Charles Robin: “Histoire Naturelle des Végétaux Parasites qui
croissent sur l’Homme et sur les Animaux Vivants.” 1853.

[2] From _cilium_, a hair.

[3] The term “cell” is used here in its broadest sense.

[4] Gosse, “A Naturalist’s Rambles on the Devonshire Coast.”

[5] It is singular that the frog, though so low in the scale of
vertebrated animals, should bear a striking resemblance to the human
conformation in its organs of progressive motion. This arises from
the exertions which it makes in swimming being similar to those
of man in walking, in as far as they both result from the strong
action of the extensors of the feet. Hence, we find a distinct calf
in the legs of both, produced by the swelling of similar muscles.
The muscles of the thigh present, also, many analogies with those
of man; particularly in the presence of the long muscle called the
_sartorius_, the use of which is to turn the foot outward, both in
stepping and in swimming.

[6] Their prey is swallowed entire; and therefore, as we shall
afterward find, the bones of the jaws and face are formed to admit of
great expansion, and of great freedom of motion upon one another.

[7] The expression of this fact is thus qualified, because it
does not apply to many fossil or extinct species, such as the
Ichthyosaurus.

[8] Westwood’s “Introduction.”

[9] The turkey had been domesticated by the Mexicans, from whom the
Spaniards introduced it into Europe. It had already become tolerably
common in England before the close of the Sixteenth Century, and in
Spain and the south of Europe much earlier in date.

The potato, maize, the cinchonas, tobacco, and the turkey, have been
pronounced the five great gifts of the New World to the Old.

[10] The emu and cassowary, though in common language referred to
as identical, are specifically distinct. Of the cassowary, properly
so called, three distinct species are now known--one of them an
inhabitant of the Australian mainland, in the neighborhood of Cape
York, a second native to New Guinea, and a third inhabiting the
island of New Britain.

[11] The substance called _Spermaceti_ is lodged in cells, formed of
a cartilaginous substance, situated on the upper part of the head of
the _Cachalot_.

[12] L. H. Morgan, _The American Beaver and his Works_, Philadelphia,
1868, pp. 82-86.

[13] The figures given in the above table represent no more than
an approximate estimate. It is only in the case of Europe that we
possess the means of making such calculations with any approach to
accuracy. The amount of the population of China alone has been stated
with wide variations--the estimates ranging between two hundred
millions and more than double that number. We adopt above the higher
number, which appears to be confirmed by the general testimony of
observers. The number of inhabitants within the African continent
(and especially within those portions of it populated by the negro
race) is scarcely more than a guess: the figures given above are
probably rather below than in excess of the truth.

[14] The facial angle is formed by the meeting of two lines drawn on
the profile of the skull--one of them a line touching the projecting
part of the forehead and the gum of the upper jaw, the other
connecting the base of the nose and the opening of the ear. The angle
formed by the meeting of these lines sometimes amounts in a Caucasian
variety of man to 80 degrees and upward; in the other varieties it
seldom exceeds 70 degrees; and in the instance of some degraded races
is considerably less.




  TRANSCRIBER’S NOTE

  Obvious typographical errors and punctuation errors have been
  corrected after careful comparison with other occurrences within
  the text and consultation of external sources.

  Some hyphens in words have been silently removed, some added,
  when a predominant preference was found in the original book.

  Except for those changes noted below, all misspellings in the text,
  and inconsistent or archaic usage, have been retained.

  Pg 1366: ‘upon out mantel’ replaced by ‘upon our mantel’.
  Pg 1385: ‘spinous prosesses’ replaced by ‘spinous processes’.
  Pg 1397: ‘this  mall group’ replaced by ‘this small group’.
  Pg 1401: ‘Scychelle Islands’ replaced by ‘Seychelle Islands’.
  Pg 1457: ‘Anagarus contains’ replaced by ‘Anagrus contains’.
  Pg 1549: ‘The cameleopard’ replaced by ‘The camelopard’.
  Pg 1572: ‘undoubtededly true’ replaced by ‘undoubtedly true’.
  Pg 1579: ‘they started, and’ replaced by ‘they startled, and’.
  Pg 1671: ‘and Caspain Seas’ replaced by ‘and Caspian Seas’.
    In the Index:
  Pg 1695: ‘A gler-fish’ replaced by ‘Angler-fish’.
  Pg 1696: ‘Bees, 1426-17’ replaced by ‘Bees, 1426-27’.
  Pg 1697: ‘Cheiroptera, 1536’ replaced by ‘Cherioptera, 1536’.
  Pg 1700: ‘Goethe, 895, 998-90’ replaced by ‘Goethe, 895, 998-99’.
  Pg 1703: ‘th (constellation)’ replaced by ‘the (constellation)’.
  Pg 1709: ‘Unguilata, 1536’ replaced by ‘Ungulata, 1536’.
  Pg 1709: ‘Vaucluse, the Sorges’ replaced by ‘Vaucluse, the Gorges’.



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE STORY OF THE UNIVERSE, VOLUME 4 (OF 4) ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


